CHAPTER I. CAUSES OF THE MEXICAN WAR—Revolution of the Hispano-American Provinces —Consequent irregularities—Neutrality of the United States—Violations of it by Mexico—Forbearance of the United States—Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Navigation—Revolt of Texas—Neutrality of the United States—Troops under General Gaines—Conduct of M. Gorostiza, the Mexican Minister WHILE in every war the civil authority of the country in which it is carried on, will be, to some extent, subordinate to the military power, it is an aggravation of the unnatural character of a civil war, that the disregard of law is general, and that the rights of persons and property, being without any adequate security, are liable to continual molestation. The overthrow of the existing government of a country, or resistance to its authority, with the excitement and confusion incident to the struggles of antagonistic factions for ascendancy, all tend directly to produce a lawless and aggressive spirit, which is hostile to personal liberty, while the wasting of the public resources of the country by the double exactions of intestine war, gife rise to those pressing necessities which are often supplied by the forcible impressment and appropriation of private property. This was exemplied in the struggles of the different HispanoAmerican countries for independence. The people were continually subjected to seizure of their property either by the republicans or monarchists, just as one party or the other happened to prevail, Nor in their efforts to raise means to support the contest in which they were engaged, did they evince much more respect for the law of nations than they did for the laws of their own country ; the property belonging to citizens of a neutral power, was appropriated to their own use, without scruple or reserve, whenever it was necessary to their purpose. Although, during the protracted struggle between Spain and her revolted colonies, the most per-fact neutrality was observed by the government of the United States, this impartial course did not shield her from the depredations of both the belligerents. An extract from the first annual message of President Monroe, in , will exhibit the aggressive conduct of the contending parties, and the just and liberal policy of the United States towards both .- « It was anticipated, at an early stage, that the contest between Spain and the colonies would become highly interesting to the United States. It was natural that our citizens should sympathize in events which affected their neighbours. It seemed probable, also, that the prosecution of the conflict, along our coasts and in contiguous countries, would occasionally interrupt our commerce, and otherwise affect the persons and property of our citizens. These anticipations have been realized. Such injuries have been received from persons acting under the authority of both the parties; and, for which, redress has in most instances been withheld. Through every stage of the conflict, the United States have maintained an impartial neutrality, giving aid to neither of the parties in men, money, ships, or munitions of war. They have regarded the contest not in the light of an ordinary insurrection or rebellion, but as a civil war between parties nearly equal, having, as to neutral powers, equal rights. Our ports have been open to both, and every article, the fruit of our soil or of the industry of our citizens, which either was permitted to take, has been equally free to the other. Should the colonies establish their independence, it is proper now to state, that this government neither seeks nor would which will not be equally open to all other nations. The colonies will, in that event, become independent states, free from any obligation to, or connexion with us, which it may not then be their interest to form on the basis of a fair reciprocity." The property of American citizens, resident in the Spanish colonies, was often impressed, and merchandise protected by the American flag was confiscated under a pretended violation of blockades of extensive coasts ; which, considering the small force employed to sustain them, were merely declaratory, and had not the slightest foundation in any acknowledged principle of international law on which to rest their pretensions. So outrageous were some of these spoliations in their character, that the same President in a subsequent message designated them as ‘ piratical practices," and asserted it was cc incumbent on the United States to claim of each, with equal rigour, the faithful observance of the well-known law of nations." In the case of all these injuries, much allowance was generously made by the United States government, in consideration of the distracted condition of the several countries during a period of civil war, and the difficulties attending an enforcement of any laws, either civil or international. Mexico, our immediate neighbour, like the other Spanish-American countries, had applied the appropriating code to the property of American resident citizens, and had been guilty of sundry violations of the American flag. Redress of grievances was not immediately demanded for these repeated violations of our neutrality, in the hope that, after Mexico had established her independence, a more just policy would prevail, at least towards the United States, which had been the first power to recognise her nationality. And when, contrary to all reasonable expectation, the impressment of the property of our citizens, and spoliations on our commerce, were continued, the United States, evincing more than the courtesy which is due to nations, still exhibited a magnanimous and was unwilling to demand redress with that promptitude which the magnitude of the injuries would have justified. This magnanimous forbearance was mistaken for weakness, and Mexico therefore continued her unjust and aggressive policy. In a treaty of commerce and boundaries was negotiated between the two republics, but the ratification of that instrument was delayed by the government of Mexico upon the most trifling pretexts. In , President Jackson, in his annual message, complained that the Mexican government still failed to ratify this ct treaty negotiated and concluded in its own capital and under its own eye." This delay was the more vexatious, on account of the uncertainty of the boundary line, and the consequent acts of certain claimants under Mexican grants of territory, which had been under the jurisdiction of the United States. The same year, Mexico assumed an overbearing tone towards the United States, and requested the recall of our resident minister, Mr. Poinsett. On the th of April, a treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation was concluded between the two republics, and ratified some time after. A convention was also agreed upon between the two powers, for the' appointment of commissioners to make a demarcation of boundaries between the two countries, but Mexico did not observe the stipulations. She even permitted the time fixed, by the treaty of limits with the United States, for the meeting of the commissioners to define the boundaries, to expire without appointing any commissioners whatever, — all the derangements incidental to an undefined boundary, in the mean time, jeoparding the protection and quiet of citizens resident upon the border. After the conclusion of the treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation, in , it was hoped that Mexico would observe a just and friendly policy towards the United States ; but, instead of redressing, or even acknowledging the former injuries which she had committed, in violation of the solemn obligations of the victual citizens of the United States, but upon her flag, and upon the persons of her consuls and other agents and officers of the government, as we will more particularly show hereafter. In the mean time new causes arose, which widened the breach between the two governments. Texas, a department of Mexico, settled to a considerable extent by emigrants from the United States, being absolved from its allegiance to Mexico by the entire overthrow of the constitution, and the tyranny of the Central government, refused to acknowledge any longer the Mexican rule, and raised the standard of revolt. In her heroic struggle for independence, she continually received subsidies of men, money, and munitions of war, from the people of the United States, which gave great offence to the Mexican government. It was perfectly natural that the citizens of the United States would feel a strong sympathy with a people struggling for liberty, and endeared to them by kindred ties ; and that they would give them such aid as was in their power. The Mexican people, however, failed to discriminate, as they should have done, between the people and the government of the United States, the latter of which determined to preserve that exact neutrality which was due to the two contending powers. If individual citizens did violate the neutrality of the United States, by supplying Texas with arms, ammunition, and troops, it is no reflection upon the government, which took all due means to prevent it, as will appear from the following circular from the Department of State, addressed to the United States District Attorneys, resident in the principal cities of the Union :— " WASHINGTON, Nov. , . cc SIR : It has become necessary for me to call your attention to the probable event of a contest between the different portions of the Mexican empire in the vicinity of the United States. Some of our citizens may, from their connexion with the settlers there, and from their enterprise and love of change, be induced to forget their duty to their own government, and its obligations to foreign powers ; but it is the fixed determination of the Executive faithfully to discharge, so far as its power extends, all the obligations of the government, and more especially that which requires that we shall abstain, under every temptation, from intermeddling with the domestic disputes of other nations. cc You are, therefore, earnestly enjoined, should the contest begin, to be attentive to all movements of a hostile character which may be contemplated or attempted within your district, and to prosecute, without discrimination, all violations of those laws of the United States, which have been enacted for the purpose of preserving peace, and of fulfilling the obligations of treaties with foreign powers. cc I am, sir, your obedient servant, JOHN FORSYTH." Notwithstanding the efforts of the government of the United States, to prevent her citizens from taking part ift the contest between Mexico and Texas, many joined the standard of the latter, and furnished supplies of arms and ammunition. In addition to this, a portion of the United States troops, under General Gaines, advanced into the territory of Texas as far as Nacogdoches, which gave great offence to the other contending power. The President of the United States had stationed these troops upon the frontier, deeming it proper, while observing a strict neutrality himself, to require both the contending parties to respect his neutrality ; and to prevent the employment of the Indians in the contest, which might cause incursions into the territories of the United States. The following extract from a letter of General Gaines, presents the reasons which, in his opinion, justified his advance into the Texan territory :- " The d article of the treaty with Mexico requires both the sions on the part of the Indian nations living within their respective boundaries, so that the United States of America will not suffer Indians to attack the citizens of the Mexican States,' &c. cc The provisions of this article, I am particularly instructed to cause to be enforced ; and I have, pursuant to instructions, taken measures to make known to the various Indian tribes inhabiting that portion of the United States bordering upon the Mexican territory, on the waters of the Red and Arkansas rivers, the determination of the government to prevent any hostile incursions into Texas, and have directed that the chiefs be called upon to inculcate upon their people the necessity of carefully abstaining from any violation of the above-mentioned engagements. cg I have learned, from several of our citizens entitled to credit, that one Manuel Flores, a Mexican Spaniard, but for several years past a citizen of Spanish Town in this state, near the Sabine Ridge, has been lately commissioned by persons professing to act by the authority of the Mexican government, for the purpose of enticing the Indians in the western prairies on our side of the boundary line to join them in the war of extermination now waging in Texas ; and that with this view, the agent, Manuel Flores, accompanied by a stranger, has lately passed up the valley of the Red river, and has already produced considerable excitement among the Caddo Indians. And I have very recently learned, from several intelligent persons in Texas, and others who have lately been there, that many of our Indians have gone over to the Texas side of the line. (c These facts and circumstances present to me this most important question, whether I am to sit still and suffer these movements to be so far matured as to place the white settlements on both sides of the line wholly within the power of the savages, or whether I ought not instantly to prepare the means for protecting the frontier settlements ; and if necessary, compelling the Indians to return to their own homes and hunting-grounds ? tc I cannot but decide in favour of the last alternative which this question presents ; for nothing can be more evident than that an Indian war, commencing on either side of the line, will as surely extend to both sides, as that a lighted quick match thrust into one side of a powder magazine would extend the explosion to both sides." Mr. Gorostiza, the Mexican Minister, protested against the advance of the troops under General Gaines, as a positive violation of the Mexican territory ; a long and somewhat angry correspondence ensued, in which Mr. Gorostiza at length demanded peremptorily the recall of the troops under General Gaines, and failing to effect his desire in that particular, on the th of October, , abruptly terminated his mission to the United States, and returned home. Before doing so, however, he adopted a course unexampled in the history of diplomacy, and highly indecorous to the government of the United States. On his own responsibility he issued a pamphlet containing portions of his correspondence with the American Secretary of State, and extracts from his letters to his own government—with an introduction to the whole, containing statements and comments defamatory of the people and government of the United States. This pamphlet was sent to editors of newspapers known generally to be unfavourable to the administration, and to the diplomatic agents accredited to the United States government. The President felt himself greatly aggrieved by this extraordinary and disrespectful conduct, especially after the long forbear- ance that had been exercised towards the Mexican government, which still refused not only to redress, but even to acknowledge the many injuries and insults which had been offered to the persons and property of our citizens, to the American flag, and to the dignity of our consuls and other officers. CHAPTER II. Injuries and Insults offered by Mexico—Outrages on the Persons and Property of American Citizens—Insults to the American Flag—Application of Texas for the recognition of her Nationality—Just and candid Policy of General Jackson—Recognition of Texas—Refusal of Mexico to redress or even admit the Injuries committed against the United States—Jackson's special Message—Action of Congress--Special Messenger despatched—Promises of redress—Neglect of Mexico to perform her Promises—Renewal of Negotiations—Convention for the Settlement of Claims—Procrastination and Evasion of Mexico—Failure of Mexico to comply with the Stipulations. Ansa the treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation, concluded in , it was hoped that Mexico would observe a just ,Ind friendly policy towards our country ; but, in violation of the most solemn articles, she committed outrages not only upon individual citizens of the United States, but upon her flag, and the persons of her consuls and other officers. The following list of grievances, as enumerated in a letter of July th, , from the Department of State to Powhattan Ellis, our Chargé d'Affaires in Mexico, will exhibit the outrages of Mexico, and the unexampled forbearance of the United States. On the st of December, , an alcalde of Menotillan, in the colony of Guazcualco, instituted what is said to have been an illegal, arbitrary, and oppressive proceeding against Doctor Baldwin, a citizen of the United States, under colour of a suit at law, preferred and carried on by a creature of the alcalde himself. Baldwin. appeared before the alcalde to answer the charge ; an altercation ensued, and the alcalde ordered him to the stocks, which Baldwin refusing to submit to, attempted to escape, and was pursued by a party of soldiers who attended the court. In the race Baldwin fell, receiving an injury in one of his legs ; was captured, carried back into the presence of the alcalde, placed in the stocks, and afterwards imprisoned. In February , the schooner Topaz, of Bangor, Maine, was employed by the Mexican government to carry troops from Matamoros to Galveston Bay. The master and mate were murdered by the soldiers on the passage, the crew imprisoned, and the vessel seized and converted to the Mexican service. On the st of June, , the American schooner Brazoria was seized in the port of Brazoria, by John Austin, the Mexican military commandant in that quarter, and employed to make an attack upon Anahuac, then in possession of insurgents. During the attack she was injured so as to be made unseaworthy, and was abandoned as a total loss, for which the underwriters have received no compensation. In the summer of , the steamboat Hidalgo, and schooner Consolation, belonging to Aaron Leggett, of New York, were forcibly taken possession of by Mexican officers at Tobasco, and used by them. The brig John, belonging to Leggett, was also detained, and money was extorted from him. The consequences resulting from these acts are represented to have been ruinous to the sufferer, and the Mexican government was clearly bound by the treaty to indemnify him for them. In March , Captain McCeige, of the schooner Industry, of Mobile, was imprisoned at Tobasco, and an exorbitant fine demanded of him without cause. The payment of the fine being made, the only condition upon which he could be allowed to depart, he abandoned his vessel and her cargo to the authorities, who afterwards sold them. In the summer of , the brig Paragon, of New York, was causelessly fired into on her way to Vera Cruz, by the Mexican public-armed schooner Tampico. In answer to an official representation on the subject by Mr. Butler, that government promised that the affair should be inquired into ; but the promise was not fulfilled. In the beginning of May , the answer of officers supposed to belong to the custom-house, who boarded the brig Ophir, of New York, on her arrival at Campeachy, to an inquiry of the captain as to which of the ship's papers it would be necessary to present at the custom-house, was accidentally, or intentionally, misrepresented. In consequence of this, notwithstanding all the papers were shown to the boarding officers, the invoices only being exhibited at the custom-house, the vessel was seized and condemned. In May , also, the schooner Martha, from New Orleans, was seized at Galveston Bay, by the Mexican armed schooner Montezuma, for an alleged non-compliance with some of the formalities of their revenue laws. Four of the passengers of the Martha were put in irons, under the hatches of the Montezuma, and otherwise treated with great barbarity, merely for an imputed intention to use their firearms against a guard that had been placed on board the Martha. In November , the schooner Hannah and Elizabeth, of New Orleans, was stranded in attempting to enter Matagorda Bay. While in this condition, she was fired into by the Mexican armed schooner Bravo, boarded by twenty armed soldiers, under the command of two officers, who forcibly took the master, crew, and passengers from the wreck, pillaged them of most of their clothes, and chained them in the hold of the Bravo until their arrival at Matamoros, where they were continued in confinement; but through the urgent representations of our consul there, all but the captain were eventually released, who was kept a long time in confinement. On the th of February, , William Hallett and Zalmon Hull, citizens of the United States, were arrested in the streets of Matamoros by a party of armed soldiers, who struck Hull in the face with a sword, and forcibly took both to the principal barrack in that city, where they were confined upon suspicion of being about to proceed to Texas. Shortly afterwards, sentinels were placed at the doors of the consul's residence, under false pretences, and all communication with the house prohibited. Armed soldiers broke open his gate during his absence, forcibly took a mare and two mules belonging to him, entered his house with drawn swords, and searched every room in it, for the avowed object of finding the consul. In February , an attempt was made at the city of Mexico to take from Mr. W. A. Slocum, protected by a courier's passport from the United States Department of State, public despatches of the United States government, addressed to Mr. Butler. The attempt failed, but Mr. Slocum was fined and detained, for carrying official letters on his person, authenticated by the endorsement of the American Department of State, and directed to the Charge d'Affaires of the United States in Mexico. In March , the schooner Eclipse was detained at Tobasco, and her master and crew maltreated by the authorities. In April , the brig Jane, schooner Compeer, and other merchant vessels of the United States, were forcibly detained at Matamoros. The same year, the military commandant of Tampico made the embargo a pretext for interrupting or obstructing the correspondence between the commander of the United States revenue cutter Jefferson and our consul there. When the Jefferson anchored off the port of Tampico, direct from Pensacola, being sent out by order of Commodore Dallas—Lieutenant Osborn and his boats' crew upon going on shore were seized and imprisoned, and the vessel prohibited from entering the river. A demand for satisfaction was made by the American Consul, but was indig- nantly refused. Some time after, the commandant was displaced on representation of our government, but he was speedily restored to a higher office on the same coast. In the mean time, Texas, which, since the battle of San Jacinto, had not been molested by Mexico, pressed upon the American government its recognition as an independent nation ; but President Jackson, although wounded by the conduct of the Mexican government, with that strong sense of justice and honour for which he was distinguished, in his special message to Congress of December st, , advised that the United States should delay to recognise its nationality until the independence of Texas was indisputably established, that the policy of his country might be above all suspicion. cc The title of Texas to the territory she claims is identified with her independence ; she asks us to acknowledge that title to the territory, with an avowed design to treat immediately of its transfer to the United States. It becomes us to beware of a too early movement, as it might subject us, however unjustly, to the imputation of seeking to establish the claim of our neighbours to a territory, with a view to its subsequent acquisition by ourselves. cc Prudence, therefore, seems to dictate that we should still stand aloof, and maintain our present attitude, if not until Mexico itself; or one of the great foreign powers, shall recognise the independence of the new government, at least until the lapse of time, or the course of events shall have proved, beyond cavil or dispute, the ability of the people of that country to maintain their separate sovereignty, and to uphold the government constituted by them. cc Neither of the contending parties can justly complain of this course. By pursuing it, we are but carrying out the long-established policy of our government—a policy which has secured to us respect and influence abroad, and inspired confidence at home." Some time before this, to prevent any hasty action in the case of Texas, the President had sent a confidential agent to ascertain the civil, political, and military condition of the country. On the acknowledgment of the independence of Texas, some time after, by the United States, the Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs protested against the matter in the most solemn manner, and in a way calculated to do violence to the feelings of the government and people of the United States. In the interim, the representations of our Chargé d'Affaires in Mexico, in relation to the grave complaints which the United States made against the government of that country, had been entirely disregarded. Wherefore, the President, in carrying out his candid policy "to ask for nothing which was not clearly right, and to submit to nothing that was wrong," finding he could effect nothing with the Mexican government, called the attention of Congress to the difficulty in a special message of February th, , from which we make the following extracts :— cc The length of time since some of the injuries have been committed, the repeated and unavailing applications for redress, the wanton character of some of the outrages upon the persons and property of our citizens, upon the officers and flag of the United States, independent of recent insults to this government and people, by the late Extraordinary Mexican Minister, would justify, in the eyes of all nations, immediate war. cc That remedy, however, should not be used by just and generous nations, confiding in their strength for injuries committed, if it can be honourably avoided ; and it has occurred to me that, considering the present embarrassed condition of that country, we should act with both wisdom and moderation, by giving to Mexico one more opportunity of atoning for the past, before we take redress into our own hands. To avoid all misconception on the part of Mexico, as well as to protect our national character from reproach, this opportunity should be given with the avowed design and full preparation to take immediate satisfaction, if it should not be obtained on a repetition of the demand for it. To this end, I recommend that an act be passed authorizing reprisals, and the use of the naval force of the United States, by the Executive, against Mexico, to force them, in the event of a refusal by the Mexican government, to come to an amicable adjustment of the matters in controversy between us, upon another demand thereof made from on board of one of our vessels of war on the coast of Mexico." The President was entirely sustained by both houses of Congress in his views of the flagrant outrages committed by Mexico, as well as in the plan of redress ; but it was recommended that she should have another opportunity to atone for her past misconduct. In this, strict adherence was had to the th article of the treaty with Mexico, which provided that—cc If any of the articles contained in the present treaty shall be violated or infracted in any manner whatever, it is stipulated that neither of the contracting parties will order or authorize any acts of reprisal, nor declare war against the other, on complaint of injuries or damages, until the said party considering itself offended shall first have presented to the other a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by competent proofs, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed." In the House of Representatives, the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs contained the following paragraph :— cc The committee fully concur with the President that ample cause exists for taking redress into our own hands, and believe that we should be justified, in the opinion of other nations, for taking such a step. But they are willing to try the experiment of another demand, made in the most solemn form, upon the justice of the Mexican government, before any further proceedings are adopted." The report of the similar committee in the Senate contained the following :— (‘ After such a demand, should prompt justice be refused by the Mexican government, we may appeal to all nations not only for the equity and moderation with which we shall have acted towards a sister republic, but for the necessity which will then compel us to seek redress for our wrongs, either by actual war or by reprisals. The subject will then be presented before Congress, at the commencement of the next session, in a clear and distinct form ; and the committee cannot doubt but that such measures will be immediately adopted as may be necessary to vindicate the honour of our country, and insure ample reparation to our injured citizens." Pursuant to these recommendations, the President despatched a special messenger to Mexico to demand satisfaction and redress, who made the demand accordingly on the th of July, . The government of Mexico replied on the th, and gave assurances that (( nothing should be left undone which may contribute to the most speedy and equitable determination of the subjects which have so seriously engaged the attention of the American government." It further promised to lc adopt, as the only guides of its conduct, the plainest principles of public right, the sacred obligations imposed by international law, and the religious faith of treaties ; and that whatever justice and reason may dictate respecting each case will be done." How well Mexico adhered to the above pledges, will appear from the following extract from the annual message of President Van Buren, of December th, :- "Although the large number, and many of them aggravated cases of personal wrongs, have been now for years before the Mexican government, and some of the causes of national complaint, and those of the most offensive character, admitted of immediate, simple, and satisfactory replies, it is only within a few days past that any specific communication in answer to your last demand, made five months ago, has been received from the Mexican Minister. By the report of the Secretary of State, herewith presented, and the accompanying documents, it will be seen that for not one of our public complaints has satisfaction been given or offered ; that but one,of the cases of personal wrong has been favourably considered, and that but four cases of both descriptions, out of all those formally presented and earnestly pressed, have as yet been decided upon by the Mexican government. • • • In accordance with the clearly-understood wishes of the legislature, another and formal demand for satisfaction has been made upon the Mexican government, with what success the documents now communicated will show. On a careful and deliberative examination of the contents, and considering the spirit manifested by the Mexican goiernment, it has become my painful duty to return the subject, as it now stands, to Congress, to whom it belongs to decide upon the time, the mode, and the measures of redress." Instead, now, of war or reprisals, Congress generously forbore to redress her wrongs in the case of a sister republic ; and negotiations were renewed between the countries. After a year's delay, the convention of April th, , was agreed upon "for the adjustment of claims of citizens of the United States of America upon the government of the Mexican republic." The joint board of commissioners to examine and decide upon these claims met in August , and the four first months were spent in frivolous points raised by the Mexican commissioners. The examination of claims, in consequence, did not commence till December , though the time of session of the convention was limited to but eighteen months. When the time expired, in , the claims allowed amounted to two million twenty-six thousand one hundred and thirty-nine dollars and sixty-eight cents. Before the umpire between the commissioners of the two countries, and undecided for want of time, were claims amounting to nine hundred and twenty-eight thousand six hundred and twenty-seven dollars and eighty-five cents ; while still other claims submitted to the board, amounting to three million three hundred and thirty-six thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven dollars and five cents, were not examined at all for want of time. The two million twenty-six thousand one hundred and thirty-nine dollars and sixty-eight cents, were not paid by Mexico, according to stipulation, and a. postponement of the time of payment was granted to Mexico at her request, in the spirit of forbearance that had always actuated the American government. A second convention was concluded on the th of January, , which was declared to be gc entered into for the accommodation of Mexico." This stipulated that Mexico should pay on the th of April, , the interest then due on the awards of the convention of the th of April, ; and that she should pay in five years, in equal instalments every three months, the principal of the awards, and the interest accruing thereon. Of the sum thus acknowledged for acts of outrage and wrong committed upon the citizens of the United States, and secured by the solemn obligations of a treaty, Mexico paid only the interest due on the th of April, , and three of the twenty instalments of the principal. Nor was this all. To provide for a liquidation of the claims not decided upon by the convention of April , it was stipulated by the sixth article of the convention of the th of January, , that a new convention should be entered into for the settlement of these claims. A third convention was accordingly concluded on the th of November, , and ratified by the United States Senate in January , with two amendments, manifestly reasonable. On referring these amendments to the government of Mexico, she was guilty of delays and evasions, in violation of the faith of treaties ; and, though the subject was earnestly pressed upon her, she would not give an answer whether she would or would not accede to the amendments, but preserved a gloomy and sullen silence. It is but just, however, to state that an effort was made to pay our admitted claims, which fell through, partly in consequence of the anticipated annexation of Texas. This will appear from an extract from the letter of Mr. Voss to Mr. Slidell :— cc For the avowed purpose of liquidating the recognised American claims, General Santa Anna, the head of the Mexican government, in May , decreed the collection of a forced loan, to be distributed in certain proportions through the departments of this Republic, and paid at periods corresponding to those stipulated in the convention to that effect with the government of the United States. This measure, essentially unpopular, could oaly have emanated from a government as absolute as that of Santa Anna then was, and, even with the aid of his unlimited powers, was very imperfectly enforced, while the temptation to a misapplication of the funds collected amidst the difficulties by which Santa Anna was surrounded is sufficiently obvious. From these concurring circumstances, the Mexican government was absolutely unable to pay the instalment which became due in April ; and in July of the same year, when another instalment should have been paid, the incapacity of the government to fulfil its engagements had become still greater. eg About this time public attention was directed to the Texan question with renewed force ; and amidst the angry excitement which it occasioned, the press found a popular theme for complaint in the payment of the American claims, and freely advocated its discontinuance." To show that Mexico had no just right to complain of the conduct either of Texas or of the government of the United States, we will consider the circumstances attending the revolt of the former, and its annexation to the United States. CHAPTER III. Early Condition of Texas—Grant to Moses Austin by the Spanish Authorities—Colony led to Texas by Stephen F. Austin in —Overthrow of the Spanish Power in Mexico—Confirmation of the Grant to Austin—Mexican Constitution of —Coahuila and Texas provisionally united as a State— Guaranty of future State Sovereignty to Texas—Its Political Condition—Election of Pedraza as President of Mexico overthrown by the Military Power of Santa Anna—Guerrero declared President—Deposition and Death of Guerrero by Bustamente —Tyranny of Bustamente—Troops sent to harass Texas—Expelled by the Texans—Bustamente overthrown by Santa Anna and Pedraza recalled—Santa Anna President—Overthrow of the Constitution and Federal System—A Central Government organised—Resistance of the Mexicans—Zacatecas—Butchery of the People—Call of a Texan Congress of Consultation—Arrival of General Cos in Texas—Resistance of the Texans—Fall of the Mexican Forts—General Cos capitulates with his Troops—Declaration of the People of Texas—Provisional Government. BEFORE , if we except the tribes of savages that wandered over its wastes, Texas contained few inhabitants. These generally were Americans, settled, for the most part, in and around the towns of San Antonio and Nacogdoches—adventurous and hardy pioneers, who, with restless enterprise, had pushed their fortunes beyond the confines of civilization. Bearing with them the innate spirit of freedom, they diffused abroad the love of liberty among the Spaniards, and contributed in no small degree to induce them to throw off their foreign yoke, and establish independence. On the th of January, , Moses Austin, of Connecticut, obtained from the Spanish authorities permission to establish a colony in Texas, with many important privileges. He was empowered to introduce into Texas three hundred families, upon a specified territory, one hundied miles in breadth on the coast, and extending one hundred and fifty miles into the interior. The grant allotted to him crossed the rivers Brazos and Colorado, and included large tracts east and west of these rivers. By the conditions agreed upon between Austin and the Spanish authorities, each family of the settlers was to receive a grant in fee of a section of land of the extent of one Spanish league square. The colonists were peimitted to bring with them all necessary implements, and other goods not exceeding the value of two thousand dollars, free from any duty, and, for a period of five or six years, they were to be exempt from taxes of every kind. Before the colony was established the grantee deceased, and Stephen F. Austin, his son, who received the grant by bequest, led thither a colony of settlers in December . At the outset of their career, the colonists endured many hardships, and suffered many privations, while they were continually harassed by the incursions and depredations of the Indians. Notwithstanding, they bore up amid their discouragements, and, favoured by a mild climate, and cheered by the hope of future wealth from the richness and fertility of the soil, continued both to labour and to suffer, while they redeemed a home from the wilderness and the savage. After a period of toil and dangers, during which the colony had steadily progressed in importance, the Mexican Revolution produced a change of government, and in consequence cast a degree of doubt upon the validity of the compact made with the elder Austin by the Spanish authorities. To superintend the interests of his colony, Austin went to Mexico, and after spending a year there, he obtained a confirmation of his grant from the National Congress of Mexico in August . This revived the drooping spirits of the colonists, and reconciled them to their new homes, of which they had begun to grow weary. Emigration to the country, which had been checked, was now resumed again, with alacrity and confidence, under the naturalization laws of , ', and '. In , when the Mexican territory was organized into states under the constitution which was then adopted, and which provided for a political system similar to our own, consisting of a general or national government, and local or state governments, Texas, on account of the smallness of its population, was united with Coahuila, under the name of the state 'of Coahuila and Texas. This union, which was with her own consent, was provisional, and to continue until she was in a condition to become a state herself and assume the necessary powers of government ; in the words of the organic act of the constituent congress of Mexico, of the th of May, , "until Texas possessed the necessary elements to form a separate state of herself." Thus was guarantied to Texas a specific political existence, with all the rights of self-government, as an independent state of the Mexican confederation, as soon as she t possessed the necessary elements." During the presidency of Guadaloupe Victoria, the constitution and the federal system adopted under it, were considered firmly established. The internal government of Texas was similar to that of our territories. It was divided into five municipalities, each of which chose its own judges, sheriffs, and other officers. The selection thus by the people, from their own citizens, of those who were to administer law and justice among them, was a security against violence and oppression. Their officers were identified with them in views, feelings, and interests. With these guaranties for the protection of person and property for the present, and the provision for the future state sovereignty of Texas, that country afforded strong inducements for agricultural enterprise to the citizens of the United States, who accordingly emigrated thither, in expectation of the permanent enjoyment of civil institutions like those of their own country. At the close of Victoria's term of office, in , when Gomez Pedraza had been elected president of the republic, Santa Anna, with his troops, pronounced in favour of General Guerrero, the rejected presidential candidate, and defeated the government troops, and thus gave to Mexico the example of prostrating the civil by the military power. Guerrero was, in consequence, installed president. Bustamente, who had received the suffrages of the friends of Pedraza, was vice-president. Santa Anna, in reward of his services, was appointed secretary of war. In Bustamente organized a conspiracy, deposed Guerrero, and, under the formalities of a military tribunal, sentenced him to be shot, on the th of February, . Though Bustamente pretended that this zeal was evinced in favour of gt Constitutional order," he did not recall Pedraza, the rightful president, but, sustained by the aristocracy and clergy, who were alarmed at the influence of republican institutions on their privileges, he proceeded, under the humble title of Vice-President, to establish throughout the country a perfect military despotism, in utter disregard of all constitutional and loyal restraints. The tyrant and his military satraps exercised the most absolute sway over the life, liberty, and property of his subjects. All freedom of the press was destroyed. As an instance, in Guadalaxara, the publisher of a paper which had given offence to Inclon, the military commandant, was seized, his press and types destroyed, and he himself, in presence of the governor and state authorities, ordered to be shot in three hours. Among the early acts of this iniquitous administration, was the repeal of the colonization laws in relation to Texas and the United States. Emigrants from that republic were forbidden to hold land in Mexico ; and by a new construction of law, many of the settlers in Texas were to be deprived of their lands, endeared to them by their labours and their sufferings. Troops soon after were sent to Texas to harass the people, under the pre. text of aiding the revenue officers. Forts erected for their accommodation at Nacogdoches, Anahuac, and Velasco, soon became the seats of military tribunals, for mock trials of popular and influential citizens, under the vague charges of disaffection to the government; and were made prisons for their incarceration, after they were condemned. Determined to resist this military despotism, the planters united, and with such forces as they could raise, in one week took the forts at Velasco, Nacogdoches, and Anahuac, and drove the enemy from the country. About this time, but without any concert of action, the garrison of Vera Cruz declared against Bustamente, and invited Santa Anna to assume the command of that post. He accepted the offer, and addressed a remonstrance to Bustamente, after which he seduced over to his interest large bodies of the government troops, and marched upon the capital, when Bustamente resigned his power and fled from the country. With a seeming regard for cc constitutional order," which he had violated in , when he deposed Pedraza, Santa Anna now recalled to the executive chair that chieftain, whose term of office was about to expire. Aware of his popularity, and assured that he would be the next president, he hazarded nothing, but gained much by this show of disinterested action. In the beginning of Santa Anna was elected to the presidential chair without opposition; and, from the popularity which he now enjoyed, as the restorer of the constitution of his country, the most sanguine expectations were entertained of a liberal execution of the powers of government. The members of the Congress were regarded as sincere friends of liberty, and the inhabitants of Texas thought the time favourable to petition the government for admission into the Mexican confederacy as a free state. Their petition set forth, that cc Coahuila and Texas were totally dissimilar in soil, climate, and productions : that the representa- GEN. ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA. tives of the former were so much more numerous than the latter, that all legislation for the benefit of Texas could b.e only the effect of a generous courtesy : that laws happily adapted to the one, would on account of the great dissimilarity of their interests be ruinous to the other : that Texas was in continual danger from the aggressidn of the Indian tribes, without any efficient government to protect her in such cases : that the present legislation is calculated to exasperate the Indian tribes by withholding their rights; whereas, by doing them justice, valuable auxiliaries might be gained, instead of deadly enemies, which should be the policy of Texas : that Texas possessed the necessary elements for a stsite government, and that for her attachment to the federal constitution, and to the republic, the petitioners pledged their lives and honour." For the above reasons and others, they prayed that Texas might be erected into a separate state of the Mexican confederacy, agreeably to the decree of the th of May, , which annexed it provisionally to Coahuila. Austin as Commissioner proceeded to Mexico with this petition, which he presented to Congress and had referred to a committee. He urged its importance upon Congress and the executive, but after waiting several months, during which he was unable to get the committee to report, to obtain a hearing from Congress, or the encouragement of the president, he despaired of success in the existing state of affairs. He wrote therefore to the municipal authorities of San Antonio, advising the call of a convention to organize a state government in Texas, with the view of rendering the action of Congress necessary in their behalf. In consequence of this letter, while on his return to Texas, he was arrested in Coahuila, and imprisoned on a charge of treason. The circumstances of the election of Santa Anna, probably led him to aspire to the supreme power. Movements of the soldiery in which he was implicated soon after his inauffuration. evince this disposition on his part. But he was restrained in his designs by the Congress, which was liberal in its views and actions, and could not be induced to favour his ambitious inclinations. During its session the Congress had turned its attention to ecclesiastical affairs, and made innovations that alarmed the clergy. It was in favour of granting toleration to the different religious creeds and appropriated to the national treasury some of the resources of the church, which it was conceived to hold without law or right. This dissatisfaction of the clergy favoured the sinister designs of Santa Anna, and he soon resolved to render himself independent of Congress through their instrumentality. The clergy, wherever they had influence to dictate their views, now procured pronunciamentos which denounced Congress and its reforms, but expressed unbounded confidence in the president. Backed thus by the priesthood and those whose action they controlled, Santa Anna, in , dissolved by force the Congress and the general council of the nation, and took measures to secure the return of a majority of members to the next Congress favourable to his designs. For this purpose the power of the clergy was employed, and large bodies of troops were posted to overawe the suffrages of the people. When this Congress assembled in January , Santa Anna in his message plainly intimated that the people were not fitted for a free government. He who, in , on the fall of Iturbide, in order to forward his selfish views, had proclaimed himself "protector of the federal republic," now contrived its destruction. Pronunciamentos in favour of a central government were effected among the people by the agency of the president and priesthood, when Congress, upon the d of October, passed a decree abolishing,the constitution of , and with it the state constitutions and state authorities. The very name of State was annihilated. To check the opposition that might arise, large forces were quartered in each state under the new governors or military prefects who were appointed by the usurper. The cen- tral government was in fact a military despotism ; and the Congress was in the power of the creatures of the usurper, and served but to register his decrees. If this change of government had been effected by a convention of the people, it would have been legal and binding. But it was not even the act of a constitutional congress ; for, the usurper had dissolved by a military order the legitimate Congress while one-half of its term remained unexpired, and by a military order, under means that prevented the free action of public opinion, 'had procured the election of members in a revolutionary and unconstitutional manner. Opposition to this revolutionary subversion of the government, was made by the people in the states of Mexico, Oaxaca, Puebla, and Jalisco. The inhabitants of the state of Zacatecas took up arms against the government in support of the federal constitution, but by a powerful army led by Santa Anna, and the treachery of that usurper, their efforts were crushed, and the horrid butchery of the citizens which followed, cast such a terror over the Mexican people, that they submitted to the military government which had been imposed, without further opposition. The people of Texas, still attached to the Mexican federal system, and hoping that the Mexican people would rise and restore it, determined to call a general congress of consultation for Texas, and delegates elected for that purpose were directed to meet on the th of October. Before that period, however, the war had commenced. General Cos, the governor, or military prefect of Texas, arrived with large bodies of troops, and attempted to disarm the inhabitants, which disclosed to the Texans the intended re-enactment of the bloody drama of Zacatecas, and animated them to a brave resistance. The repulse of the Mexicans at Gonzales, on the last day of September, the capture of Goliad, the victory at Conception, and the capture of Fort Lepanticlan, on the west bank of the Nueces, followed in quick succession, and gave confidence to the people ; while the storming and capture of San Antonio, the last military post held by Mexico, by which General Cos and his army capitulated to the commander of the Texan troops, diffused the liveliest joy through the state. We copy the first article of the capitulation, as it proves even at this time, the sincere desire of Texas still to be a member of the Mexican confederation, agreeably to the constitution of . It will also prove the faithlessness of Cos, in returning again to the war after being paroled :— cc Article st. That General Cos and his officers retire with their arms and private property, into the interior of the republic, under parole of honour, that they will not in any way oppose the re-establishment of the federal constitution of ." This capitulation took place on the th of December, , and closed the campaign of that year. When the th of October came, the time appointed for the delegates to assemble in consultation, many were in the ranks of the army ; but there was still a quorum, which published a declaration, in which they expressed their firm adherence to the federal constitution of , and the lawful government of the country, and proffering their aid to restore them. It was made on the th of November, and was as follows :- "Whereas, General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, and other military chieftains, have by force of arms overthrown the federal institutions of Mexico, and dissolved the social compact which existed between Texas and the other members of the Mexican confederacy, now the good people of Texas, availing themselves of their natural rights, SOLEMNLY DECT.Anr, • c( st. That they have taken up arms in defence of their rights and liberties, which were threatened by encroachments of military despots, and in defence of the republican principles of the federal constitution of Mexico in . "d. That Texas is no longer morally or civilly bound by the compact of unions; yet, stimulated by the generosity and sympathy common to a free people, they offer their support and assistance to such of the members of the Mexican confederacy as will take up arms against military despotism. "d. That they do not acknowledge that the present authorities of the nominal Mexican republic have the right to govern within the limits of Texas. "th. That they will not cease to carry on war against the said authorities, whilst their troops are within the limits of Texas. gc th. That they hold it to be their right, during the disorganization of the federal system, and the reign of despotism, to withdraw from the union, to establish an independent government, or to adopt such measures as they may deem best calculated to protect their rights and liberties ; but that they will continue faithful to the Mexican government so long as that nation is governed by the constitution and laws, that were framed for the government of the political association. "th. That Texas is responsible for the expenses of her armies now in the field. "th. That the public faith of Texas is pledged for the payment of any debts contracted by her agents. "th. That she will reward, by donations in hand, all who volunteer their services in her present struggle, and receive them as citizens. gc These declarations we solemnly avow to the world, and call God to witness their truth and sincerity, and invoke defeat and disgrace upon our heads, should we prove guilty of duplicity." It is certainly evident from the above that not Texas, but Mexico herself, was the revolutionary party. This will be further apparent from the views set forth in a report by Stephen F. Aus- tin to the provisional government, on the th of November, of of which we submit an extract :— ( That every people have the right to change their government, is unquestionable ; but it is equally certain and true, that this change, to be morally or politically obligatory, must be effected by the free expression of the community, and by legal and constitutional means ; for otherwise, the stability of governments and the rights of the people would be at the mercy of fortunate revolutionists, of violence, or faction. ((Admitting, therefore, that a central and despotic, or strong government, is best adapted to the education and habits of a portion of the Mexican people, and that they wish it ; this does not, and cannot, give to them the right to dictate, by unconstitutional means and force, to the other portion who have equal rights, and differ in opinion. (‘ Had the change been effected by constitutional means, or had a national convention been convened, and every member of the confederacy been fairly represented, and a majority agreed to the change, it would have placed the matter on different ground ; but, even then, it would be monstrous to admit the principle, that a majority have the right to destroy the minority, for the reason, that self-preservation is superior to political obligations. That such a government as is contemplated by the before-mentioned decree of the d of October, would destroy the people of Texas, must be evident to all, when they consider its geographical situation, so remote from the contemplated centre of legislation and power ; populated as it is, by a people who are so different in education, habits, customs, language, and local wants, from all the rest of the nation ; and especially when a portion of the central party have manifested violent religious and other prejudices and jealousies against them. But no national convention was convened, and the constitution has been, and now is, violated and disregarded. The constitutional authorities of the state of Coahuila and Texas solemnly protested against the change of government, for which act they were driven by military force from office, and imprisoned. , The people of Texas protested against it, as they had a right to do, for which they have been declared rebels by the government of Mexico. cc However necessary, then, the basis established by the decree of the d of October, may be to prevent civil wars and anarchy in other parts of Mexico, it is attempted to be effected by force and unconstitutional means. However beneficial it may be to some parts of Mexico, it would be ruinous to Texas. This view presents the whole subject to the people. If they submit to a forcible and unconstitutional destruction of the social compact, which they have sworn to support, they violate their oaths. If they submit to be tamely destroyed, they disregard their duty to themselves, and violate the first law which God stamped upon the heart of man, civilized or savage ; which is the law of the right of self-preservation. ci The decree of the d of October, therefore, if carried into effect, evidently leaves no remedy for Texas but resistance, secession from Mexico, and a direct resort to natural rights." The members of the Consultation, after sundry acts calculated to meet the exigencies of the times, organized a provisional government, which consisted of a governor, lieutenant-governor, and general council. The council was composed of one member from each district represented in the Consultation. The provisional government went into operation on the th of November, and was to continue in force till the following March. It was made thus temporary, in order to await the action and co-operation of the other states, should they make an effort to restore the constitution of the country, and its legitimate political system. In organization of the provisional government, Henry Smith was chosen governor, James W. Robinson, lieutenant-governor, and General Samuel Houston, commander-in-chief. CHAPTER N. Rumours of Invasion—Want of Preparation by the Texans—Convention of the People—Intelligence of the Advance of the Mexican Army—Declaration of Independence — Constitution in conformity to it—General Houston's Orders—Lorenzo de Zavala, the Refugee—Advance of the Mexican Army—Urea marches on Goliad—Santa Anna marches on San Antonio—Colonel Travis in the Alamo —Besieged by General Siesma—Arrival of Santa Anna and Fall of the Alamo—Surrender of Colonel Fannin at Goliad—Massacre of the Prisoners after Capitulation—Policy of General Houston—Battle of San Jacinto—Complete Victory—Capture of Santa Anna—Texan Independence established. DURING the winter, owing to the remoteness of the capital, and the variance of the two countries, the Texans had but little information respecting the, intentions of Mexico. Frequent rumours, however, came, that Santa Anna contemplated an invasion. It was even said, that he was on his march, and alarm and preparation to meet him followed the annunciation. But, as the accounts proved unfounded, a sense of security and indifference lulled them to sleep, and in consequence, nearly all their forces were disbanded, when the Texans were startled by the intelligence that Santa Anna, at the head of ten thousand men, the choicest of his troops, had already entered the country, with the declared intention, if he found resistance, to spare neither age nor sex, but to make the country an utter desolation. This intelligence, with that of the siege of San Antonio de Bexar, reached Washington on the d of March. A convention of the people was in session at that place, to provide for the exigencies of the time, as the period of the provisional government was about to expire, and decree the independence of the country if it were deemed expedient. Convinced now, that nothing was to be expected from a change in the political system of Mexico, and preferring death to a state of slavery, the delegates, in full view of the terrible struggle that was before them, resolved to dissolve all connexion with Mexico whatever, and published to the world the following charter of freedom, upon the same day on which they learned the advance of the Mexican chief, and the siege of San Antonio de Bexar. “Unaniinous Declaration of Independence, by the delegates of the people of Texas, in general convention, at the town of Washington, on the d day of March, . " WHEN a government has ceased to protect the lives, liberty, and property of the people, from whom its legitimate powers are derived, and for the advancement of whose happiness it was instituted ; and, so far from being a guaranty for their inestimable and inalienable rights, becomes an instrument in the hands of evil rulers for their oppression : When the federal republican constitution of their country, which they have sworn to support, no longer has a substantial existence, and the whole nature of their government has been forcibly changed, without their consent, from a restrictive federative republic, composed of sovereign states, to a consolidated central military despotism, in which every interest is disregarded but that of the army and the priesthood—both the eternal enemies of civil liberty, the ever-ready minions of power, and the usual instruments of tyrants : When, long after the spirit of the constitution has departed, moderation is at length so far lost by those in power, that even the semblance of freedom is removed, and the forms themselves of the constitution discontinued ; and so far from their petitions and remonstrances being regarded, the agents who bear them are thrown into dungeons, and mercenary armies sent forth to force a new government upon them at the point of the bayonet; (c When, in consequence of such acts of malfeasance and abduction on the part of the government, anarchy prevails, and civil society is dissolved into its original elements ; in such a crisis, the first law of nature—the right of self-preservation—the inherent and inalienable right of the people to appeal to first principles, and take their political affairs in their own hands in extreme cases, enjoins it as a right towards themselves, and a sacred obligation to their posterity, to abolish such government, and create another in its stead, calculated to rescue them from impending dangers, and to secure their welfare and happiness. cc Nations, as well as individuals, are amenable for their acts to the public opinion of mankind. A statement of a part of our grievances is therefore submitted to an impartial world, in justification of the hazardous but unavoidable step now taken of severing our political connexion with the Mexican people, and assuming an independent attitude among the nations of the earth. cc The Mexican government, by its colonization laws, invited and induced the Anglo-American population of Texas to colonize its wilderness, under the pledged faith of a written constitution, that they should continue to enjoy that constitutional liberty and republican government to which they had been habituated in the land of their birth, the United States of America. te In this expectation they have been cruelly disappointed, inasmuch as the Mexican nation has acquiesced in the late changes made in the government by General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, who, having overturned the constitution of his country, now offers us the cruel alternative, either to abandon our homes, acquired by so many privations, or submit to that most intolerable of all tyranny, the combined despotism of the sword and the priesthood. ct It bath sacrificed our welfare to the state of Coahuila, by which our interests have been continually depressed, through a jealous and partial course of legislation, carried on at a far distant seat of government, by a hostile majority, in an unknown tongue ; and this, too, notwithstanding we have petitioned in the humblest terms for the establishment of a separate state government ; and have, in accordance with the provisions of the national constitution, presented to the General Congress a republican constitution, which was, without a just cause, contemptuously rejected. cc It incarcerated in a dungeon, for a long time, one of our citizens, for no other cause but a zealous endeavour to procure the acceptance of our constitution, and the establishment of a state government. cc It has failed and refused to secure, on a firm basis, the right of trial by jury—that palladium of civil liberty, and only safe guaranty for the life, liberty, and property of the citizen. cc It has failed to establish any public system of education, although possessed of almost boundless resources, (the public domain ;) and although it is an axiom in political science, that unless a people are educated and enlightened, it is idle to expect the continuance of civil liberty, or the capacity for self-government. cc It has suffered the military commandants stationed among us to exercise arbitrary acts of oppression and tyranny, thus trampling upon the most sacred rights of the citizen, and rendering the military superior to the civil power. cc It has dissolved, by force of arms, the state Congress of Coahuila and Texas, and obliged our representatives to fly for their lives from the seat of government, thus depriving us of the fundamental political right of representation. cc It has demanded the surrender of a number of our citizens, and ordered military detachments to seize and carry them into the interior for trial, in contempt of the civil authorities, and in defiance of the laws and the constitution. cc It has made piratical attacks upon our commerce by commissioning foreign desperadoes, and authorizing them to seize our vessels and convey the property of our citizens to far distant parts for confiscation. ct It denies us the right of worshipping the Almighty according to the dictates of our own conscience, by the support of a national religion, calculated to promote the temporal interest of its human functionaries, rather than the glory of the true and living God. ,t It has demanded us to deliver up our arms, which are essential to our defence—the rightful property of freemen—and formidable only to tyrannical governments. It has invaded our country both by sea and by land, with the intent to lay waste our territory, and drive us from our homes ; and has now a large mercenary army advancing, to carry on against us a war of extermination. tc It has, through its emissaries, incited the merciless savage, with the tomahawk and scalping knife, to massacre the inhabitants of our defenceless frontiers. It has been, during the whole time of our connexion with it, the contemptible sport and victim of successive military revolutions, and hath continually exhibited every characteristic of a weak, corrupt, and tyrannical government. These and other grievances, were patiently borne by the people of Texas, until they reached that point at which forbearance ceases to be a virtue. We then took up arms in defence of the national constitution. We appealed to our Mexican brethren for assistance ; our appeal has been made in vain ; though months have elapsed, no sympathetic response has yet been heard from the interior. We are, therefore, forced to the melancholy conclusion, that the Mexican people have acquiesced in the destruction of their liberty, and the substitution therefore of a military government ; that they are unfit to be free, and incapable of self-government. ,c The necessity of self-preservation, therefore, now decrees our eternal political separation. tg We, therefore, the delegates with plenary powers of the people of Texas, in solemn convention assembled, appealing to a candid world for the necessities of our condition, do hereby resolve and declare, that our political connexion with the Mexican nation has for ever ended, and that the people of Texas do now constitute a Free, Sovereign, and Independent Republic, and are fully invested with all the rights and attributes which properly belong to independent nations ; and, conscious of the rectitude of our intentions, we fearlessly and confidently commit the issue to the decision of the Supreme Arbiter of the destinies of nations." Signed by RICHARD &us, President, and forty-nine delegates. On the th the convention agreed upon a constitution, which was to be submitted to the people, and, if approved, the officers of the government were to be elected under it. Whatever was done, was in accordance with strict democratic principles, and the sovereignty of the people. While the convention thus acted with decision in declaring the nationality of Texas, prompt measures were taken in its defence. General Houston, the Commander-in-chief, by the following brief but stirring appeal, announced independence and summoned the country to arms :— " ARMY ORDERS. CONVENTION HALL, WASHINGTON, March d, . cc War is raging on the frontiers. Bejar is besieged by two thousand of the enemy, under the command of General Siesma. Reinforcements are on their march to unite with the besieging army. By the last report our force in Bejar was only one hundred and fifty men strong. The citizens of Texas must rally to the aid of our army, or it will perish. Let the citizens of the East march to the combat. The enemy must be driven from our soil, or desolation will accompany their march upon us. IiQ- DEPENDENCE IS DECLARED ; it must be maintained. Immediate action united with valour alone can achieve the great work. c The services of all are forthwith required in the field.' SAM. HOUSTON, Commander-in-chief of the Army." The events of the former campaign were in the last degree wounding to the pride of the Mexican chief. The Texans, opposed to the central power, not only had refused to receive his military governor and had organized a government of their own ; but, after taking the several forts, had forced the governor and his troops to capitulate and abandon the country. While wounded executive and military pride thus urged him to subjugate the country, religious fanaticism stimulated him to vengeance against the Texans, because they refused to deliver up Lorenzo de Zavala, one of the purest men in Mexico, who had become a refugee in consequence of moving a law in the Mexican Congress, against certain church property. To render their action unpardonable, the Texans had elected Zavala vice-president of the provisional government. The invading army entered Texas in two divisions. General Urea led the right and advanced upon Goliad, while Santa Anna, with the left, marched upon San Antonio,de Bexar, which was reached by the van, consisting of a thousand men under General Siesma, on the d of February. The Texan garrison, under Colonel W. B. Travis, consisted of but one hundred and fifty men. Expecting no mercy from the infuriated chief, they determined to make a desperate resistance, and retired into the Alamo with what provisions they could collect. The intrepid commander then issued the following proclamation, which he observed to the letter:— COMIUBDANCY OP TEl ALAMO, BULB, Feb. th, . ‘ Fellow-Citizens and Compatriots ! ct I am besieged by a thousand or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna. I have sustained a continual bombardment and cannonade for twenty-four hours, and have not lost a man. The enemy have demanded a surrender at discretion ; otherwise the garrison is to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken. I have answered the summons with a cannon-shot, and our flag still waves proudly from the walls. I shall never surrender or retreat. Then I call on you in the name of liberty, patriotism, and everything dear to the American character, to come to our aid with all despatch. The enemy are receding reinforcements daily, and will no doubt increase to three or four thousand in four or five days. Though this call may be neglected, I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible, and die like a soldier who never forgets what is due to his own honour and that of his country. Victory or death ! W. BARRETT TRAVIS, Lieut. Col. Coml." From the d of February to the d of March, the Mexicans, increased by the successive arrivals of troops, assailed the little garrison with an incessant cannonade. Various attempts too were made to carry the fortress by storm ; but the Texans, animated to a terrible resistance by the ominous blood-red flag which floated from the enemy's camp, repelled their efforts with heavy slaughter. In the mean time, the enemy encircled them with entrenched encampments, while the Texans increased their defences by entrenching on the inside. On the d of March a deafening shout of acclamation announced the arrival of Santa Anna, attended by additional troops. Closely invested now by an army of four thousand men, the brave Travis and his band withstood the furious onset that con- _ tinned night and day. Human nature, however, could not bear up against this incessant labour and watching. On the morning of the th, a few hours before day, oppressed they sunk down to rest. Shortly after, Santa Anna, who was maddened at the resistance he had met, made a more furious assault than usual. Having drawn up his infantry, with his cavalry posted in the rear to shoot down any who would turn back, he forced them on to the attack. An hour before day the Mexicans advanced, slew the exhausted sentinels at their posts, and gained the walls. The noise roused the garrison to a desperate struggle, and on all sides round were strewed the bodies of the assailants, till the Texans, overcome with the fatigue of sla.ughter, and exhausted by wounds, sunk overpowered by the numbers of the enemy. When the Mexicans obtained full possession of the fort, they found but a single man alive ; Santa Anna, infuriated at the resistance of the garrison, which had caused him the loss of a thousand of his best troops, immediately ordered him to be shot; and, with a savage ferocity, ordered the mangled bodies of the slain to be piled up together and reduced to ashes. That the lamented Travis acted properly in refusing to surrender to the sanguinary tyrant, is proved by what took place at Goliad. Colonel Fannin, who commanded at this place, unable to resist the right division of the Mexican forces under General Urea, surrendered to that officer under the assurances of a treaty solemnly ratified as follows :— cc Seeing the Texan army entirely overpowered by a far superior force, and to avoid the effusion of blood, we surrender ourselves prisoners of war, under the following terms : (c Art. st. That we should be received and treated as prisoners of war, according to the usages of civilized nations. "Art. d. That the officers should be paroled immediately upon their arrival at La Bahia ; and the other prisoners should be sent to Copano, within eight days, there to await shipping to convey them to the United States, so soon as it was practicable to pro- cure it : no more to take up arms against Mexico, until exchanged. "Art. d. That all private property should be respected, and officers' swords should be returned on parole or release. "Art. th. That our men should receive every comfort, and be fed as well as their own men. Signed, Gen. UREA, COI. MORATEAS, Col. HOBZINGER) on the part of the enemy, and our part. Signed by Col. FANNIN) and Maj. WALLACE." Notwithstanding the pledges given above, the unfortunate Fannin and his men were treated with great brutality, and at length by order of Santa Anna were marched out between files of soldiers under circumstances of great treachery, and inhumanly butchered, and their bodies afterwards burned to ashes. And as if alike in disregard of God and humanity, this act of savage ferocity was committed upon the day of the Prince of Peace : the roar of musketry—the petitions and cries of the wounded—and the smoke of the burning bodies desecrating and polluting the still Sabbath air. The awful scene is depicted in the following extract from the letter of a Mexican officer :- "This day, Palm Sunday, March , has been to me a day of heartfelt sorrow. At six in the morning, the execution of four hundred and twelve American prisoners was commenced, and continued till eight, when the last of the number was shot. At eleven, commenced the operation of burning their bodies. But what an awful scene did the field preient, when the prisoners were executed, and fell dead in heaps ! And what spectator could view it without horror! They were all young, the oldest not more than thirty, and of fine florid complexions. When the unfortunate youths were brought to the place of death, their lamentations and the appeals which they uttered to heaven in their own language, with extended arms, kneeling or prostrate on the earth, were such as might have caused the very stones to cry out in compassion." The slaughter of Fannin and his troops, and the fall of the Alamo, carried dismay into the hearts of the people. The government panic-struck fled, and most of the citizens, giving up all for lost, imitated the example. In this trying emergency, Houston, the commander-in-chief, having drawn to his standard about eight hundred men, with dauntless intrepidity resolved to attack the enemy before he would concentrate his forces, and thus cut up his army in detail. By a providential circumstance, Houston, when near the division of the centre, which was commanded by Santa Anna, obtained every desirable information. A courier was captured with a despatch detailing Santa Anna's movements, his force, route, and destination. By a forced march, Houston reached on the th of April the place, near the confluence of Buffalo Bayou and San Jacinto; where Santa Anna intended to cross the San Jacinto river, on his way to Anahuac ; and, before his army had prepared their refreshments, the troops of Santa Anna appeared. A cannonade soon commenced on both sides, with skirmishes between the cavalry and detached bodies of infantry, shortly after which Santa Anna retired to a position three-fourths of a mile from the Texan camp, where he rested the right flank of his infantry on a wood that skirted the San Jacinto, and secured his left by a fortification of packs and baggage, with an opening in the centre for his artillery. Thus, almost in presence of each other, the hostile armies slept till the bright sun of spring arose which was to light the young republic to independence, and usher in the day of doom to its enemies. On the morning of the st, Santa Anna was reinforced by five hundred and forty men under General Cos, making his force nearly sixteen hundred men. These were choice troops, formed under his own eye, acquainted with the manoeuvres and strifes of war, and equipped with all needful appointments. To oppose these, the Texan commander had under him less than eight hundred men. These were planters and men of every profession and trade, the most of whom had never seen service, who with scarcely any military exercise had taken upon them the duties and fatigues of a soldier. They had, however, every stimulant to excite them. If vanquished, they knew that they would be butchered in cold blood, and that the fire and sword of desolation would sweep over the settlements, till it reached the Sabine. Patriotism thus summoned them to every manly exertion for the defenceless living, while a voice from Goliad and the Alamo, called to vengeance for the butchered dead. Under the cover of a wood, having completed his arrangements for battle, without exposing his designs to the enemy, General Houston led on his little army to the attack. The evolutions were made with alacrity and precision. Debouching from an island of timber, the army advanced rapidly in line across the prairie ; when the artillery took position within two hundred yards of the enemy's breastwork, and poured in a destructive fire of grape and canister. Colonel Sherman's regiment having commenced the action on the left, the centre and right advanced in double quick time, with the terrible war-cry, (‘ Remember the Alamo !" which rose above the roar of battle, and carried dismay into the hearts of the Mexicans. Receiving the fire of the enemy, which mostly went over their heads and did little execution, they advanced within point-blank shot, and then with deadly aim delivered their fire with murderous effect. Not taking time to reload the pieces, they rushed on and used their pistols, and then, raising their rifles as war-clubs, sent them crashing through skull and bone. Many of these were broken at the breech, when, still pressing on like furious lions, and shouting that deathful cry, cg Remember the Alamo !" with their bowie-knives they hewed down those of the enemy that resisted, or stabbed them in retreat. The breastwork and artillery were soon in possession of the Texans, while the wings in the mean time had been put to slaughter or the rout. The enemy's cavalry had been repulsed with great loss by that of the Texans under the brave Lamar, and it was now in full retreat. Hotly pursued by the Texans, it sought retreat by a bridge which General Houston had taken the precaution to cut down. On arriving here, a cry of horror announced the bridge Was gone. Some urged their coursers down the steep bank, and horse and rider went down together. Others dismounted, and were struggling to swim over the stream. Horses and men were jammed and crushed together, upon the banks and in the waters, while a heavy fire from their pursuers assailed them, till the waters were red with blood, and the channel choked up with the dead and the dying. The victory was complete. The Mexican loss was six hundred and thirty killed, two hundred and eighty wounded, and seven hundred and thirty prisoners. Among the latter were General Santa Anna, and General Cos, who had treacher. ously broken his parole. Of the army scarcely a man escaped. The Texans lost but two in killed, and twenty-three wounded. The battle of San Jacinto sealed the independence of the country, and the new star of Texas rose in beauty among the constellations of republics. Santa Anna, who by his inhumanity to his prisoners had forfeited his life, was generously spared by the Texan commander. As President of Mexico he made a treaty with General Houston, in which he recognised the full independence of Texas, and enzazed to order the withdrawal of the remaining toms. lib- wards of four thousand in number. His generals immediately evacuated the country and returned to Mexico with their troops ; but the Mexican Congress refused to acknowledge the treaty which he had made, and ordered a new invasion. This however was not attempted, and all warfare between the two countries was hereafter confined to desultory attacks and skirmishes. Texas, which had been granted to the settlers as a part of Mexico, according to laws of naturalization—which had further become theirs by labours that redeemed it from the wilderness—which had been pledged to them with state sovereignty by the federal compact of —all rightful control of which reverted from Mexico to them upon the forcible dissolution of that compact by military despotism—had lastly become theirs by right of conquest, and the inhabitants of Texas had an unquestionable right to organize a government of their own, or form any alliance or union with any government whatever. Able to maintain the independence she had declared, she was admitted into the family of nations. President Jackson, after sending a confidential agent to examine her condition, people, and resources, first recognised her political existence; and the last time he put his hand officially to paper, it was on this interesting occasion. The act of recognition by the United States was soon followed by that of England, France, and Belgium. We have thus at some length shown the rise of Texas as a nation, with the view of relieving her from the.obloquy too often thrown upon her, and of demonstrating the fact, that instead of plundering the Mexican nation of a part of her territory, as her people have been accused of doing, they acknowledged and upheld the great principles of the Mexican constitution with truth and fidelity, until there was no hope of constitutional freedom, and a war of extermination denounced against them as rebels, drove them into independence. CHAPTER V. Political Existence of Texas—Proposals for Annexation to the United StateeAttempt to effect the Recognition of the Independence of Texas by Mexico—President Tyler's Treaty of Annexation—Its Rejection by the Senate—Mr. Bocanegra—Protest of Almonte—Letter of General Jackson—Joint Resolution for the Annexation of Texas—Protest and Departure of the Mexican Minister—Action of the Mexican Government—Measures for the Defence of Texas—General Taylor Commander of the Forces of the United States for its Defence—Letter of Instructions—Acceptance of the Terms of Annexation by Texas—The Army of Occupation at Corpus Christi—Attempt to open Negotiations with Mexico—Mr. Slidell's Mission—Downfall of Herrera and Accession of Paredes—Refusal to receive Mr. Slidell except as a Special Envoy—Advance of the United States Army to the Rio Grande—The Texan Boundary considered—Arrival of the American Army at the Colorado—Crossing disputed—Point Isabel invested—March resumed—Encampment on the Rio Grande—Correspondence. HAVING achieved the independence of their country, the people of Texas now turned their attention to the future, and considered whether they would best promote their security and happiness by a separate existence under the protection of some foreign state, or by merging their sovereignty in the great Northern Confederacy. The expenses of maintaining a government, and the distrust of foreign alliances, indisposed them to the former, while the circumstance of the majority of the inhabitants being emigrants from the United States, rendered a union with that country desirable. With this preference, and in the exercise of a legitimate act of sovereignty, the Executive of Texas, on the th of August, , proposed to annex that country to the United States. An expression of opinion relative to this subject had been made in September , at the first election held for choosing officers under the constitution, and the desire for the union was found to be nearly unanimous. The proposition of annexation was made during the presidency of Mr. Van Buren ; but, as the United States and Mexico were bound by a treaty of amity and commerce, he conceived that annexation would be a breach of the comity existing between them ; and, foreseeing that it involved the probability of a war with Mexico, he was unwilling to entertain the proposition with _ favour. Having failed to secure incorporation with the republican family of the North, Texas opened negotiations with European powers, with the view of obtaining the acknowledgment of her independence by Mexico, through the intervention of France and England. England, especially, treated the young republic with great consideration, and exerted her influence to induce the recognition of her nationality on the part of Mexico. This was for no disinterested love of a republican state, but with the view of securing to herself by treaty the commercial advantages to be derived from the increasing importance of Texas France, too, committed now to the intrigues of the Montpensier marriage, laboured to prevent the annexation of Texas to the United States, probably with the view of placing over Mexico and Texas, at no distant day, a French prince, through the Spanish union. Mexico herself, fearing that the annexation of Texas to the United States might lead to a further dismemberment of territory, would have consented to the recognition of Texas, on condition that she would preserve a distinct nationality ; and accordingly an armistice had been concluded between them, through the intervention of France and England. While annexation was becoming thus less necessary and desirable to Texas, the importance of the measure claimed the attention of the politicians of the United States. Accordingly, during Mr. Tyler's administration, negotiations with a view to annexation were opened on the th of October, , by Abel P. Upshur, Esq., Secretary of State. A treaty of annexation was signed by the Texan Ministers Plenipotentiary and by President Tyler, and on the d of April, , submitted to the United States Senate, but was rejected by that body. While the subject of annexation was agitated, Mexico had steadily notified the government of the United States that it would consider the act a ground of war. The Mexican Minister of Foreign Relations, Mr. Bocanegra, on the d of August, , in a letter to Waddy Thompson, our Minister in Mexico, had used the following explicit language :- /" "His Excellency, the Provisional President, resting on this deep conviction, is obliged to prevent an aggression unprecedented in the annals of the world from being consummated ; and if it be indispensable for the Mexican nation to seek security for its rights at the expense of the disasters of war, it will call upon God, and rely on its own efforts for the defence of its just cause." In November of the same year, General Almonte, the Mexican Minister at Washington, protested against the act of annexation in the following solemn manner :— ,,iut if, contrary to the hopes and wishes entertained by the government of the undersigned for the preservation of the good understanding and harmony which should reign between the two neighbouring and friendly republics, the United States should, in defiance of good faith and the principles of justice which they have constantly proclaimed, commit the unheard-of act of violence of appropriating to themselves an integrant part of the Mexican territory, the undersigned, in the name of his nation, and now for them, protests in the most solemn manner against such an aggression ; and he moreover declares, by express order of his government, that on sanction being given by the Executive of the Union to the incorporation of Texas into the United States, he will consider his mission ended, seeing that, as the Secretary of State will have learned, the Mexican government is resolved to declare war as soon as it receives intimation of such an act." Though the treaty of annexation was defeated, the subject was favourably entertained by the people, who feared that the fertile province offered to them would, by a union with England, become in some measure a rival. The following extract from a letter of General Jackson of the date of January st, , shows the importance of the subject :— cI have just received from Major Donelson, a letter dated at Washington, in Texas, from which I would infer, that if Congress expect to annex Texas to the United States, they must act speedily, or it will be found to be beyond our grasp. The rejection of the advances of Texas has given offence to some, and a handle to others to press the liberal propositions of England upon the Texans, together with the splendid view of Texas independent, growing into a vast republic, in time to embrace not only the limits of Texas, but all the domain once Montezuma's. This view, to ambitious aspirants, added to the guaranties of England of her independence, and the loan of large sums for ten years, based upon a treaty that English manufactures shall be free of duty, is gaining a party in Texas., General Houston is still the leading star ; and his influence alon can be counted upon to resist the present influence of Englan and its increasing power. How long this influence of Englan# can be successfully withstood in Texas, is becoming a very questionable matter. I have taken a view of the whole ground, giving to all information its due weight, and I say to you that unless Congress acts upon this subject promptly, Texas will be beyond our grasp, and lost to the United States for ever, unless regained by the sword. What will be the situation of our country, with British manufactures introduced duty free into Texas ? Comment is unnecessary. "I hazard nothing in saying, that, if the present Congress do not act promptly upon this subject, the next will not have the power. The consent of Texas cannot then be obtained. Great Britain will have laid the lion's paw upon her, and bound her by treaty." During the session of , the subject engaged the attention of Congress, and on the st of March, , a joint resolution passed the two houses of Congress annexing Texas to the United States. We extract the principal part of the resolution, as we shall have occasion to refer to it hereafter :- "Resolved by the Sou* and House of Representatives of the United States. of America in Congress assembled : That Congress a doth consent that the territory properly included within and rightfully belonging to the Republic of Texas, may be erected into a new state, to be called the State of Texas, with a republican form of government to be adopted by the people of said republic by deputies in convention assembled, with the consent of the existing government, in order that the same may be admitted as one of the states of this Union. ct Section st. And be it further resolved, That the foregoing consent of Congress is given upon the following conditions, to wit :- " Arst. Said state to be formed subject to the adjustment by this government of all questions of boundary that may arise with other governments ; and the constitution thereof, with the proper evidence of its adoption by the people of the said Republic of Texas, shall be transmitted to the President of the United States, to be laid before Congress for its final action, on or before the st of January, ." Immediately after learning that this resolution was signed by the President of the United States, General Almonte, the Mexican Minister, protested against it in the name of his government, demanded his passports, and left the country. As soon as the annexation of Texas became known in Mexico, Sefior Cuevas, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the d of n:. ) ORE J)AV ) CONNER March addressed a long memorial to the Chambers upon the subject, in which he stated his reliance upon the interference of foreign powers ; at the same time he notified the American Minister, Mr. Shannon, that all diplomatic intercourse between Mexico and the United States was at an end. He addressed also a circular to the ministers resident of all the foreign powers, in which he protested against the injustice bf the United States, and announced the intention of Mexico to resist it; and on the d of March sent despatches to the governors of the different departments throughout the republic, asking their assistance to sustain the government and maintain the rights of the nation. On the th of April, the joint committee of the Mexican Congress to whom the memorial on the affairs of Texas had been referred, made a report, in which they asserted their right to Texas, and the duty to take up arms for its recovery; and made the most urgent appeals to the patriotism of the people to prevent its usurpation. Meanwhile the American government, satisfied that Texas would accept the terms of annexation, had taken precautionary measures for the protection of the country. An efficient military force was concentrated on the frontier of Texas, under the com- mand of Brigadier-General Zachary Taylor, who had distinguished himself in the Florida war ; and a strong squadron under Captain Stockton was ordered to the Gulf of Mexico, with instructions to co-operate with the army. By a despatch of the st of March, , General Taylor, then at Fort Jesup, in Louisiana, was ordered to hold his troops in readiness to march into Texas upon notification by the Department of War. Subsequent to this, on the th of May, the Secretary of War reiterated the above instructions as follows :— cc SIR : I am directed by the President to cause the forces now under your command, and those which may be assigned to it, to be put into a position where they may most promptly and effi- ciently act in defence of Texas, in the event it shall become necessary or proper to employ them for that purpose. The information received by the Executive of the United States warrants the belief that Texas will shortly accede to the terms of annexation. As soon as the Texan Congress shall have given its consent to annexation, and a convention shall assemble and accept the terms offered in the resolutions of Congress, Texas will then be regarded by the executive government here so far a part of the United States aS to be entitled from this government to defence and protection from foreign invasion and Indian incursions. The troops under your command will be placed and kept in readiness to perform this duty." On the th of June, in accordance with a requisition of Mr. Donelson, the American Charge d'Affaires in Texas, Mr. Bancroft, the acting Secretary of War, addressed to Taylor the following confidential letter of instructions, which we give entire on account of its importance :— cc WAR DEPARTMENT, June : . cc SIR: On the th day of July next, or very soon thereafter, the convention of the people of Texas will probably accept the proposition of annexation, under the joint resolutions of the late Congress of the United States. That acceptance will constitute Texas an integral portion of our country. cc In anticipation of that event, you will forthwith make a forward movement with the troops under your command, and advance to the mouth of the Sabine, or to such other point on the Gulf of Mexico, or its navigable waters, as in your judgment may be most convenient for an embarkation at the proper time for the western frontier of Texas. cc In leaving to your judgment to decide the route, it is intended that you choose the most expeditious, having due regard to the health and efficiency of the troops, on reaching the point of destination. ‘ The force under your immediate command, at and near Fort Jesup, to be put in motion on the receipt of these instructions, will be the d and th regiments-of infantry, and seven companies of the d regiment of dragoons. The two absent companies of the th infantry have been ordered to join their regiments. Artillery will be ordered from New Orleans. cg It is understood that suitable forage for cavalry cannot be obtained in the region which the troops are to occupy ; if this be so, the dragoons must leave their horses and serve as riflemen. But it is possible that horses of the country, accustomed to subsist on meagre forage, may be procured, if it be found necessary. You will therefore take the precaution to order a portion of the cavalry equipments to accompany the regiment, with a view to mounted service. cc The point of your ultimate destination is the western frontier of Texas, where you will select and occupy, on or near the Rio Grande del Norte, such a site as will consist with the health of the troops, and will be best adapted to repel invasion, and to protect what, in the event of annexation, will be our western border. You will limit yourself to the defence of the territory of Texas, unless Mexico should declare war against the United States. gg Your movement to the Gulf of Mexico, and your preparations to embark for the western frontier of Texas, are to be made without any delay ; but you will not effect a landing on that frontier until you have yourself ascertained the due acceptance of Texas of the proffered terms of annexation, or until you receive directions from Mr. Donelson. lc I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, GEORGE BANCROFT. To Brigadier-General Z. TAYLOR, U. S. Army, commanding st dep't. Fort Jesup, La." This letter was forwarded to General Taylor by an express, and immediately upon its receipt, the army was put in motion. On the d of July, the th Infantry embarked on steamers, and arrived at New Orleans on the th. The d Infantry left Fort Jesup on the th, and reached New Orleans on the th. Gene:- ral Taylor and staff remained at Fort Jesup to arrange affairs for the departure of the Dragoons, and did not join the troops until the th. On the th, Lieutenant Bragg, with the d Artillery, arrived from Charleston, and joined the Army of Occupation. Here the general received the following despatch, which modified his former instructions :— " WAR DEPARTMENT, July , .. t( SIR : This department is informed that Mexico has some military establishments on the east side of the Rio Grande, which are, and for some time have been, in the actual occupancy of her troops. In carrying out the instructions heretofore received, you will be careful to avoid any acts of aggression, unless an actual state of war should exist. The Mexican forces at the posts in their possession, and which have been so, will not be disturbed as long as the relations of peace between the United States and Mexico continue. WM. L. MARCY. Brigadier-General Z. TAYLOR." The line of policy herein enjoined was much in accordance with the views of General Taylor, as appears in the following reply :— " HEAD-QUARTERS FIRST MILITARY DEPARTMENT,? New Orleans, La., July , . cc SIR : I respectfully acknowledge your communication of July , covering the instructions of the Secretary of War of the same date, relative to the Mexican settlements on this side of the Rio Grande. Those instructions will be closely obeyed ; and the department may rest assured that I will take no step to interrupt the friendly relations between the United States and Mexico. I am gratified at receiving these instructions, as they confirm my views, previously communicated, in regard to the proper line to be occupied at present by our troops. c% I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. A., commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." A despatch from Major Donelson, dated at Austin, July th, reached New Orleans on the st, and informed General Taylor that the Convention of Texas had unanimously accepted the terms of annexation, and the following day the troops embarked for Texas. On the morning of the th of July they reached St. Joseph's Island, in Aransas Bay, where they were temporarily established ; and on the st the Army of Occupation took position at Corpus Christi. This location was at once healthy, easily supplied, and well situated to hold in observation the course of the Rio Grande from Matamoros to Laredo. While here the troops were regularly practised in the different evolutions and manoeuvres of war, and reconnoissances were made with reference to an advance of the army towards the Rio Grande. Meanwhile Mexico made no declaration of war, and adopted no measures that looked like a determination to invade Texas. This induced the United States Executive to suppose that Mexico would be willing to settle the existing difficulties by diplomacy ; and accordingly, Mr. Buchanan, the Secretary of State, by means of an indirect correspondence with Mr. Black, the American Consul of Mexico, attempted to renew negotiations with the Mexican cabinet. The government was evidently in favour of adjusting all difficulties with the United States, and agreed to receive an envoy for that purpose ; but, fearing the prejudices of the Mexican people, who were in favour of war, stipulated that, to avoid all appearance of coercion, the person deputed should be of a conciliatory disposition, and that before his arrival, the naval force of the United States should be withdrawn from Vera Cruz, where it lay in sight. Commodore Conner, who was now in command of the squadron, promptly withdrew the naval force, as requested. No doubt whatever can be entertained that President Herrera and his cabinet were desirous of peace ; but before the minds of the Mexican people had been prepared for the renewal of friendly relations, the American envoy, Mr. Slidell, appeared and pressed his reception with earnestness, which greatly embarrassed the action of the administration. The council of government was to a great extent in open opposition to the Executive and his cabinet, and, instead of forwarding the movement in favour of negotiation, made it the subject of intrigue against the administration, with the view of overthrowing it. In consequence of this the Mexican government refused to receive Mr. Slidell, upon a point of etiquette, that having recalled her resident Minister, and dissolved the relations between the two countries, Mexico could not receive again a resident Minister from the United States, until a special envoy had by negotiations arranged the difficulties in relation to Texas. This will appear from the following extract of a letter from Mr. Black to Mr. Slidell, detailing the substance of a conversation between him and Pena y Pena, the Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs :- « On Saturday evening, the th instant, at the request of Mr. Slidell, I called on the Mexican Minister, Senor Pena, at his house, to inquire when an answer would be given to his (Mr. Slidell's) aforesaid note. He replied, that the affair had been submitted to the government council, in a special session of this day, and that it had been referred to a committee, and that as soon as the committee made a report, and the council should decide, he would then advise me, through Mr. Monas- terio, when he was ready for the conference to present to me the answer for Mr. Slidell ; as he said when he came to examine the credentials of Mr. Slidell, he found them to be the same as those presented by Mr. Shannon, and other former Ministers—as a Minister to reside near the government of Mexico, just as if there had been no suspension of the diplomatic and friendly relations between the two governments ; that the Mexican government understood the present mission to be a special mission, and confined to the differences in relation to the Texas question, and not as a mission to reside near the Mexican government, as in ordinary cases ; that of course would follow when the first question was decided. cc I replied, that as I understood it, the Mexican government had not only agreed to receive an envoy intrusted with full powers to settle the question in dispute in relation to the affairs of Texas, but all the questions in dispute between the two governments, as proposed by the government of the United States. He replied that the credentials of Mr. Slidell had not reference to any questions in dispute, but merely as a Minister to reside near the Mexican government, without reference to any questions in dispute, just as if the diplomatic and friendly relations between the two governments had not been and were not interrupted ; that I knew the critical situation of the Mexican government, and that it had to proceed with great caution and circumspection in this affair ; that the government itself was well disposed to arrange all differences." The principal reason, however, that influenced the Executive in coming to this decision, was the fear of an anticipated revolution, which took place but nine days after, and caused the overthrow of Herrem's administration in favour of General Paredes, who was a military despot, and hostile to the United States. Mr. Slidell now retired to Jalapa, and again made overtures to the Mexican government to renew their friendly relations by re. ceiving him as cc-Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to reside near the government of Mexico ;" but the admin- istration. of Paredes, adhering to the resolve of the former administration, which had been accused of treason on account of being favourably disposed to the United States, refused to receive Mr. Slidell in any other character than that of a special envoy to treat upon the subject of Texas alone. This will appear more fully from an extract of a letter of Senor Castillo y Lufias, dated March th, :— ccFrom these extracts it is manifest that it was the firm intention of the Mexican government to admit only a plenipo- tentiary from the United States clothed with powers ad hoc—that is to say, special powers to treat upon the question of Texas, and upon this alone as preliminary to the renewal of friendly relations between the two countries, if the result should be such as to admit of their restoration; and then, but not before, of the reception of an Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near the same government. cc Nor could the government of the republic on that occasion extend its engagement beyond this ; for to admit any person sent by the United States in the character simply of the ordinary agents between friendly nations, whilst the grave question of Texas was still pending, directly and immediately affecting, as it does, the integrity of the Mexican territory, and the very nationality itself, would be equivalent to an acknowledgment that this question was at an end, thus prejudging it without even touching it, and to a recognition that the relations of friendship and harmony between the two nations were from that moment in fact re-established." Immediately on the receipt of this note, Mr. Slidell demanded his passports, and returned to the United States. Notwithstanding the hostile attitude of Mexico, war might have been avoided if time had been allowed for the prejudices and animosity of the people against the United States to subside. It is true Mexico had signified an intention to declare war and invade Texas, but would never have done so if she had not been provoked by the advance of the army of the United States. To substantiate this opinion, we should call to mind, that immediately after the battle of San Jacinto, the Mexican government had ordered an invasion of Texas, but never carried her order into execution. General Almonte had solemnly stated, in the event of the annexation of Texas, dc the Mexican government is resolved to declare war 'as soon as it receives intimation of such an act," yet Mexico made no declaration of war. And such would have been the issue of all the threats about the subjugation of Texas after its annexation to the United States. Even Paredes, who was known to be hostile to the United States, had declared in his manifesto to the people tht cc until the National Congress had considered the question, no act of aggression would be committed against the United States by the Mexican government, but that it would repel any that might be offered by them." It is evident alike from the letters of General Taylor and of the War Department, that while the army remained at Corpus Christi, war was not expected by either. The following letters will show this to be the case :— "HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY OF OCCUPATION, Corpus Christi, Texas, Sept. , . c Sla : I have the honour to report that a confidential agent, despatched some days since to Matamoras, has returned, and reports that no extraordinary preparations are going forword there that the garrison does not seem to have been increased, and that our consul is of opinion there will be no declaration of war. A decree had been issued prohibiting, under penalty of death, any communication, by writing, across the frontier—a precaution which has been adopted on former occasions, and caused, no doubt, by our presence here. Nothing definite can be learned in relation to the march of troops from the interior. A body of , men was reported in march to Matamoros, but the information is too vague to merit much confidence. The agent, who is intelligent, and upon whose statements a good deal of reliance may, I think, be safely placed, says that the mass of the people, with whom he mingled, is opposed to a war with us, and that if war be declared, the frontier departments of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Nuevo Leon, will probably declare themselves independent of the central government and establish pacific relations with us. tc This is the substance of the information brought from Matamoros. Notwithstanding its character, I shall not relax my exertions to prepare for active operations and a state of war with Mexico. I must express the hope that no militia force will be ordered to join me without my requisition for it. I am entirely confident that none will be required. cc I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brag. Gen. U. S. ./. commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." Subsequent to the reception of the above, and while admitting there was no probability of war, the Executive, through his secretary, directed an advance to the Rio Grande, into territory which was in dispute, and which had never been held by Texas at all :— " WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, Oct. , . f cc SIR : The information which we have here, renders it probable that no serious attempts will, at present, be made by Mexico to invade Texas, although she continues to threaten incursions. Previous instructions will have put you in possession of the views of the government of the United States, not only as to the extent of its territorial claims, but of its determination to assert them. In carrying out these instructions, you will be left very much to your own judgment, by reason of your superior knowledge of localities, and the earlier notice you may receive of the probable views of Mexico, and the movements of her troops. cc On the supposition that no active operations on your part will be required during the approaching winter, an important question to be decided is the position or positions to be occupied by your forces. This must be determined mainly with reference to the objects for which the army under your command was sent into Texas. You will approach as near the western boundary of Texas (the Rio Grande) as circumstances will permit ; having reference to reasonable security ; to accommodations for putting your troops into winter huts, if deemed necessary ; to the facility and certainty of procuring or receiving supplies ; and to checking any attempted incursions by the Mexican forces or the Indian tribes. *	*	* cg You are requested to avail yourself of all proper occasions, and employ the means you possess to collect information in regard to all these matters, and forward it to this department. cc Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WM. L. MARCY, Secretary of War. Brigadier-General Z. TAYLOR, Commanding Army of Occupation in Texas." While efforts were making to restore diplomatic relations between the two countries, and long before the Mexican government had finally refused to receive the United States' envoy, the President had ordered the advance of the army to the left bank of the Rio Grande, and a strong fleet into the Gulf of Mexico, and thus precluded all hopes of accommodation : " WAR DErsurmarr, Washington, January , .i cc Sin : I am directed by the President to instruct you to advance and occupy, with the troops under your command, positions on or near the east bank of the Rio del Norte, as soon as it can be conveniently done with reference to the season and the routes by which your movements must be made. From the views hereto- .		fore presented to this department, it is presumed Point Isabel will be considered by you an eligible position. This point, or some one near it, and points opposite Matamoros and Mier, and in the vicinity of Laredo, are suggested for your consideration ; but you are left to your better knowledge to determine the post or posts which you are to occupy, as well as the question of dividing your forces with a view to occupying two or more positions. ec In the positions you may take in carrying out these instructions and other movements that may be made, the use of the Rio del Norte may be very convenient, if not necessary. Should you attempt to exercise the right which the United States have in common with Mexico to the free navigation of this river, it is probable that Mexico would interpose resistance. You will not attempt to enforce this right without further instructions. tc Yoil are requested to report to this department, without delay, what means you may require, if any, beyond those you now possess, to enforce and maintain our common right to navigate this river, as well as your views of the importance of this right in the defence and protection of the State of Texas. cc It is not designed, in our present relations with Mexico, that you should treat her as an enemy ; but, should she assume that character by a declaration of war, or any open act of hostility towards us, you will not act merely on the defensive, if your relative means enable you to do otherwise. cc Since instructions were given you to draw aid from Texas, in r±aSP vnu chnnlrl flaam if naracearly tho rola+inne bpi-an:am that State and the United States have undergone some modification. Texas is now fully incorporated into our Union of States, and you are hereby authorized by the President to make a requisition upon the Executive of that state for such of its militia force as may be needed to repel invasion or to secure the country against apprehended invasion. cc I have the honour to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, WM. L. MARCY, Secretary of War. Brigadier General Z. TAYLOR." The President, in his annual message to Congress, assigned the following reasons for ordering the advance of the American troops :- "Instructions have been issued to the general in command, to occupy the left bank of the Del Norte. This river, which is the south-western boundary of the state of Texas, is an exposed frontier ; from this quarter invasion was threatened ; upon it and in its immediate vicinity, in the judgment of high military experience, are the proper stations for the protecting forces of the government. In addition to this important consideration, several others have occurred to induce this movement. Among these are the facilities afforded by the ports at Brazos Santiago and the mouth of the Del Norte, for the reception of supplies by sea ; the stronger and more healthful military positions ; the convenience for obtaining a ready and a more abundant supply of provisions, water, fuel, and forage ; and the advantages which are afforded by the Del Norte, in forwarding supplies to such ports as may be established in the interior and upon the Indian frontier." Now, were it true that the Rio Grande del Norte was the southwestern boundary of the republic of Texas, the advance of the American army to that river for the defence of Texas, would have been justifiable. But let us consider this subject, and see - if it really was the boundary of the Texas annexed to the United States. That the Rio Grande was the ancient boundary of Texas, all must admit. While Texas belonged severally to France, to the United States, and to Spain, it was the acknowledged boundary. So Mexico received it upon the downfall of the Spanish power in that country. Holding now the entire country by right of revolution and by subjugation, it must be admitted that Mexico could make any partitions of her own territory, and establish any domestic boundaries which she deemed expedient. In doing this, she was at perfect liberty to abridge the extent of Texas, or amplify it by any additions from the territory of Mexico proper. In her internal divisions, Mexico saw fit to assign a portion of the territory east of the Rio Grande that had been included in the ancient Texas, to the states of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Chihuahua, and established the original line between Texas, Tamaulipas, and Coahuila, on the river Aransas, thirty miles east of the Nueces. This, then, was the boundary of Texas, when jointly with Coahuila it was admitted as a state into the Mexican Confederation. This was its boundary when the unconstitutional establishment of a central government and military despotism resolved the Mexican Confederacy into its original elements, and thus left to each integrant portion the right to organize a government of its own. By right of revolution the people of Texas declared their independence, and established a government. This simple act, however, did not extend her boundaries. The independent republic of Texas would, of necessity, now be within the same metes and bounds that the state or department of Texas had been while a part of the Mexican confederacy, unless additions were made to it by annexation, or by conquest. To a certain extent, its boundaries were enlarged ; for the people of Tamaulipas, living between the Aransas and the Nueces, and those in the valley of the Nueces to the west of that river as far as the great desert, united with the Texans in their revolt, and after the independence of Texas was declared, associated themselves with them in forming their government. They were thus annexed to Texas or subjuga.. ted by it, and became a part of Texas. The boundary of Texas, then, by revolutionary right or by subjugation, now became the great desert west of the valley of the Nueces. Up to this boundary the people had united in the Texan revolution, acknowledged the laws of Texas after the government was formed, and paid taxes for its support. From the great desert west to the valley of the Rio Grande were Mexican settlements, composed of those born under Mexican laws—citizens of the states of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Chihuahua, who had not revolted with the Texans, but had always acknowledged the Mexican authority, and given it a ready support. Over these Texas had no control. She had not subjugated them ; sje exercised no jurisdiction over them ; she attempted none, either to serve process, collect taxes, or enforce laws. True, the Congress of Texas, by act of December th, , declared the Rio Grande, from its mouth to its source, to be their boundary ; but with what propriety, or on what grounds I They might have gone further, and with equal justness declared the San Fernando to be the boundary. It is one thing to declare right to territory, on paper, and another to take it by conquest, and maintain it by arms. To the country lying between the desert and the Rio Grande, Texas had the same right that she had to the state of Zacatecas or New Leon, and no more. It was a claim simply asserted on paper, but founded upon no right, maintained by no force. The declaration of the Rio Grande as boundary by the Congress of Texas, according to a statement of Judge Ellis, who was President of the convention that formed the constitution, was an act of policy with the sole view of giving sufficient margin in the negotiation with Mexico, and with no expectation of so retaining it. The above historical facts and inferences show that Texas had no just claim to the country up to the Rio Grande ; and consequently we could have none. What follows will make the truth more apparent. In the first place, President Tyler, who concluded the treaty of annexation which was rejected by the Senate, did not consider the Rio Grande as the certain boundary of Texas. Hence Mr. Calhoun, the Secretary of State, in his letter to Mr. Green, our Charge at Mexico, says :--cc You are enjoined also, by the President, to assure the Mexican government, that it is his desire to settle all questions between the two countries which may grow out of this treaty, or any other cause, on the most liberal and satisfactory terms, including that of boundary." And again, speaking of the government of the United States, says :—‘g It had left the boundary of Texas without specification, so that what the line of boundary should be, might be an open question to be fairly and fully discussed and settled according to the rights of each—the mutual interests and security of the two countries." The Executive that ordered the advance to the Rio Grande, indirectly admits that our claim was not just ; for the American Minister, Mr. Shannon, acting under his instructions, when about to leave Mexico, in his letter to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, states :—ci The undersigned can assure his excellency Seflor Cuevas that his (Mr. Shannon's) government entertains the liveliest desire to cultivate amicable relations with that of Mexico ; and here he will improve this opportunity to repeat that which he has before communicated to the government of Mexico, to wit, that the United States has not adopted the measure of annexation in any spirit of hostility towards Mexico, and that the United States are anxious to settle all questions which may grow out of this measure, including that of boundaries, in terms the most just and liberal." The liberal terms referred to, in connexion with boundaries, could have reference only to the purchase of territory. The same is OM	AD •••••••••••^^	••• ^•• •••••• AO' I•IYIIM	vo., AO. •••^•^••••••••••••••••••• •	• ^•^ apparent from the letters of Mr. Slidell, who was sent to arrange all matters in dispute between the two governments. It is evident that the Congress of the United States did not believe the claim of Texas to the Rio Grande tenable, for in the joint resolution of annexation, the language is :—"The territory . properly included within and rightfully belonging to Texas." Indeed, the very phraseology employed was in consequence of a common conviction in the Senate, that Texas' claim to territory up to the Rio Grande was not just. In accordance with this belief, it was further resolved, that the United States should adjust all questions of boundary, the only one in ,dispute being the boundary between Texas and Mexico. The language employed was as follows :— cc Section st. And be it further resolved, That the foregoing consent of Congress is given upon the following conditions, to wit :— ( it First, said state to be formed subject to the adjustment by this government of all questions of boundary that may arise with other governments." The following resolution offered in the United States Senate •	by Senator Benton, will place the matter in a stronger light :— it Resolved, That the incorporation of the left bank of the Rio del Norte into the American Union, by virtue of a treaty with Texas, comprehending, as the said incorporation would do, a part of the Mexican departments of New Mexico, Chihuahua, Coahuila, and Tamaulipas, would be an act of direct aggression on Mexico, for all the consequences of which the United States would stand responsible." I shall now show that our agent sent to Texas, Mr. Donelson, did not regard the claim of Texas as just, to the country lying on the Rio Grande. This is apparent in his letter to the Secretary of State, under date of June d, , in which he says :--cc The territory between the Nueces and the Rio Grande, you are aware, has been in possession of both parties. Texas has held in peace 	HISTORY OF THE MEXICAN WAR. Corpus Christi. Mexico has held Santiago. Both parties have had occasional possession of Laredo and other higher points. Mexico, however, has threatened a renewal of war for the whole of Texas, if she accepts the proposals for the annexation to the Union. If she undertakes such an expedition, she of course puts upon the hazard of war the whole claim, and gives us the right of going not only to the Rio Grande, but wherever else we may please." In a note to the Secretary, under date of July d, , Mr. Donelson reiterates the same :— cc My position is, that we can hold Corpus Christi and all other points up the Nueces. If attacked, the right of defence will authorize us to expel the Mexicans to the Rio Grande." In a letter to General Taylor, of June th, Mr. Donelson uses language of the same import :- ‘ The occupation of the country between the Nueces and the Rio Grande, you are aware, is a disputed question. Texas holds Corpus Christi ; Mexico holds Santiago, near the mouth of the Rio Grande. IY• "You can safely hold possession of Corpus Christi and all other points up the Nueces, and if Mexico attempts to dislodge you, drive her beyond the Rio Grande.' The views which Mr. Donelson entertained respecting the real claim of Texas, were perfectly just. She was entitled to Corpus Christi and the settlements on the Nueces, east of the great desert, but to no territory beyond the desert. More than this, in the preliminary treaty between Texas and Mexico, signed by the Texan Secretary of State, and approved by the President of Texas, the Texans themselves admitted the boundary between them and Mexico to be an unsettled question, as will appear from the d and th articles :- " . Limits and other conditions to be matter of arrangement OIONNI -r.W.	•• I/ OP. u . Texas will be willing to remit disputed points respecting territory and other matters to the arbitration of umpires." In a letter to Mr. Buchanan, of July th, , Mr. Donelson shows the impropriety of vindicating by arms a claim to the territory on the Rio Grande, which Texas herself had agreed to settle by arbitration :- « The proclamation of a truce between the two nations (Mexico and Texas), founded on propositions mutually acceptable to them, leaving the question of boundary not only an open one, but Mexico in possession of the east bank of the Rio Grande, seemed to me inconsistent with the expectation that in defence of the claim of Texas, our troops should march immediately to that river. What the Executive of Texas had determined not to fight for, but to settle by negotiation, to say the least of it, could be as well left to the United States on the same conditions." The above views of Mr. Donelson on the question of the boundary of Texas, were consonant both with justice and prudence, and in direct opposition to the course pursued by the Executive of the United States. But further, while the President claimed the territory as far as the Rio Grande, we were accustomed to pay duties to Mexico_at the custom-house at Brazos Santiago or Point Isabel. We paid duties also at Santa Fe, far east of the Rio Grande, and we interceded with Mexico for the American citizens taken prisoners in the expedition against that place. In March d, , Congress passed an act relative to drawbacks on goods sent to cc Santa Fe in Mexico." The Secretary of the Treasury, on referring to it in his report in the following December, recognises Santa Fe as a part of Mexico. The President of the United States, himself, in the same message in which he claims as the boundary of Texas, u the Rio Grande from its mouth to its source," in speaking of the victories of our troops, AID I via I Ur	friZa DIZ.A.,. TV ALA• admits the futility of the claim in the following sentence :---cc By rapid movements the province of New Mexico, with Santa Fe, its capital, has been captured without bloodshed." Moreover, after taking possession of this portion of the Mexican territory, the President provided for the establishment of a military government, such as would temporarily follow an acquisition of territory by conquest. If he had considered it really a portion of Texas, it would, as a matter of course, have come under the control of the state authorities of Texas, for even the President of the United States could not interfere with the internal government of a sovereign state. The foregoing, in connexion with the letter of the Secretary of War, under date of July th, , which we have given, and with the official despatch of General Taylor to the Department of War, of the date of February th, , conclusively prove that the Rio Grande was not considered the real boundary of Texas, either by Texas herself, by the Congress of the United States, or its Executive, by the agent sent to Texas, by the Secretary of War, or by the commander of the forces sent to occupy Texas. As a military officer, however, General Taylor had no election in the matter, but was bound to obey the directions of the President as Commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy of the United States. The following letters from General Taylor to the War Department, after he was ordered to advance to the Rio Grande, are necessary to an understanding of the causes which led directly to the commencement of hostilities between Mexico and the United States. "HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY OF OCCUPATION, Corpus Christi, Texas, February , .c " SIR : I respectfully acknowledge the communication of the Secretary of War, dated January th, and containing the instructions of the President to mare forward with my friroa tn tho Rio Grande. I shall lose no time in making the necessary preparations for carrying out those instructions. tc The occupation of Point Isabel or Brazos Santiago as a depot will be indispensable. That point, and a position on or near the river opposite Matamoros, will, I think, answer all present purposes. At any rate, I shall not separate my force further until the position of affairs shall render it entirely safe to do so. cc I propose to abandon this position entirely, as soon after our march as the stores, hospital, &c., can be transferred to St. Joseph's Island. It will be necessary to keep up an establishment at that point for the present, although our supplies will come to Point Isabel direct from New Orleans. et In reply to the call of the Secretary for information as to what means, if any, will be required to enforce and maintain our common right to navigate' the Rio Grande, I would respectfully state that, until I reach the river and ascertain the condition of things in the frontier states of Mexico, temper of the people, &c., I cannot give any satisfactory answer to the question. I have every reason to believe that the people residing on the river are well disposed towards our government. Our advance to the Rio Grande will itself produce a powerful effect, and it may be that the common navigation of the river will not be disputed. It is very important to us, and will be indispensable when posts are established higher up, as must ultimately be the case. cg I shall not call for any militia force in addition to what I already have, unless unforeseen circumstances shall render its employment necessary. et I beg leave again to call the attention of the Department to the necessity of having our movement and position at Brazos Santiago covered by a small armed vessel. I deem this vitally important, and hope it will meet with favourable consideration. gc We have no news from the interior of Mexico more recent than that derived from the New Orleans papers of the th of January. cc I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. A. commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." " HEAD- QUARTERS, ARMY OF OCCUPATION, Corpus Christi, Texas, February , . tt SIR : I have to report that the preparations for a forward movement of this command are now nearly completed. The examinations spoken of in my report of the th instant have shown the practicability of both routes—by the main land and by Padre Island. The reconnoissance of Padre Island extended to its southern extremity, and included the harbour of Brazos Santiago and Point Isabel ; that of the main route reached to a point near the Little Colorado. A depot, with four days' forage, and subsistence for the army, will be thrown forward some forty miles, to the Santa Gertrudes. A detachment of two companies, to establish and cover this depot, will march, on the th, under Brevet Major Graham. In about a week thereafter, say the th of March, the cavalry will march, to be followed, at intervals of one day, by the brigades of infantry. By the th of March, at latest, I hope to be in position on the Rio Grande. ,c I have taken occasion to represent to some citizens of Matamoros, who were here with a large number of mules for sale, and who are represented to have considerable influence at home, that the United States government, in occupying the Rio Grande, has no motive of hostility towards Mexico, and that the army will, in no case, go beyond the river, unless hostilities should be commenced by the Mexicans themselves ; that the Mexicans living on this side will not be disturbed in any way by the troops ; that they will be protected in all their usages ; and that everything which the army may need will be purchased from TEXAN BOUNDARY.	TT them at fair prices. I also stated that, until the matter should be finally adjusted between the two governments, the harbour of Brazos Santiago would be open to the free use of the Mexicans as heretofore. The same views were impressed upon the Mexican custom-house officer at Brazos Santiago by Captain Hardee, who commanded the escort which covered the reconnoissance of Padre Island. g‘ We are entirely without news of interest from the frontier, or the interior of Mexico, our latest date from the capital being the st of January, and the same from Vera Cruz. c( I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. A. commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." Now, it has been contended by some, that the advance to the Rio Grande was not the cause of the war,—that Mexico would have declared war anyhow,—and that, as Paredes published his manifesto on the d of April, , it is impossible that the arrival of General Taylor upon the Rio Grande, which took place on the th of March, could have been reported in Mexico, deliberated upon, and orders for the commencement of hostilities forwarded to General Arista, by the th of April. But, it will be recollected, that direction to march to the Rio Grande was given to General Taylor, October th, , three months before the peremptory order of the th of January ; and that General Taylor, while at Corpus Christi, made no secret of the intended advance to the Rio Grande, but openly conversed with influential citizens of Mexico respecting it, with the view of conciliating them. Hence we perceive that, long before he reached the Rio Grande, and possibly before he left Corpus Christi, his intended march was known to the Mexican government. The language of General Taylor, in his letter of February th, makes this Matamoros, who were here with a large number of mules for sale, and who are represented to have considerable influence at home, that the United States government, in occupying the Rio Grande, has no motive of hostility towards Mexico, and that the army will in no case go beyond the river, unless hostilities should be commenced by the Mexicans themselves." In the final note of Senor Lanzas to Mr. Slidell, dated March th, from the following passage, it would seem that the Mexican government was already aware of the intended advance of the American army, in which he impugns the sincerity of the United States, which, he says, were cc proposing peace at the very moment when they are causing their squadrons and their troops to advance upon the ports and frontiers of Mexico, exacting a humiliation impossible to be submitted to, in order to find a pretext, if no reason can be found, which may occasion the breaking out of hostilities." But the manifesto of Paredes, which we shall give in the due course of narrative, will itself set the matter at rest, for he expressly states—that he does not declare war, but merely defends the Mexican territory which has been invaded. His language is :—(t I solemnly announce that I do not declare war against the United States of America, because it pertains to the august Congress of the nation, and not to the Executive, to settle definitely the reparation which so many aggressions demand. But the defence of the Mexican territory, which the United States troops invade, is an urgent necessity, and my responsibility would be immense before the nation, if I did not give commands to repel those forces who act like enemies, and I have so commanded. From this day commences a defensive war, and those points of our territory which are invaded or attacked, will be energetically defended." And, that Paredes knew of the advance of the American army, is beyond dispute ; for in his manifesto he enumerates among the acts of aeeression. the occunation of Padre Island. Point Isabel. •	- • MAJ. OEN. WILLIAM J. WORTH. and the right bank of the Rio Bravo : (‘ Meanwhile the army of the United States encamped at Corpus, Christi, and occupied the Isla del Padre; following this, they then moved to the Point Santa Isabel, and their standard of the stars and stripes waved on the right bank of the Rio Bravo del Norte, opposite the city of Matamoros, blockading that river with their vessels of war." Now, as the Army of Occupation remained seven months and eleven days at Corpus Christi without interruption, but was im- mediately opposed on passing the bounds over which Texas possessed jurisdiction, it is, I think, sufficiently evident that war would not have ensued, had it not been for the advance of our troops to the Rio Grande, into territory which never belonged to Texas, and which, therefore, she could not annex to us. The reconnoissances which General Taylor had ordered being completed, he determined on the route by the main land. Accord- ingly, on the morning of the th of March, the advance of the Army of Occupation, under Colonel Twiggs, marched in a southerly direction for the Rio Grande. It consisted of the d regiment of dragoons, and Major Ringgold's light artillery, and numbered twenty-three officers and three hundred and seventy-eight men. On the th it was followed by the First Brigade, under General Worth, with Duncan's battery ; and on the th by the Second Brigade, under Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh. The Third Brigade, under Colonel Whistler, with Bragg's battery, struck their tents on the th, and were followed on the same day by General Taylor and his staff. Major Monroe embarked for Brazos Santiago, accompanied by Captain Sanders, of the Engineers, and the officers of the ordnance and the pay departments. He had with him a siege-train and a field-battery, which, for want of horses, was of necessity shipped. The movement to Brazos Santiago was covered by the revenue cutter Woodbury. Arrangements having been made by the staff departments for supplying the army on their march, as well as for establishing a depot at Point Isabel, the commanding general issued an order to the troops, by which he intended to relieve the apprehensions that might be felt by the Mexicans on account of his march into their country. Copies of the order were sent in advance to Matamoros, Camargo, and Mier. It was as follows:— " ORDER No. . " HEAD-QUARTERS, AWAY OF OCCUPATION, Corpus Christi, March , . cc The Army of Occupation of Texas being now about to take a position upon the left bank of the Rio Grande, under the orders of the Executive of the United States, the General-in-chief desires to express the hope that the movement will be advantageous to all concerned ; and with the object of attaining this laudable end, he has ordered all under his command to observe, with the most scrupulous respect, the rights of all the inhabitants who may be found in peaceful prosecution of their respective occupations, as well on the left as on the right side of the Rio Grande. Under no pretext, nor in any way, will any interference be allowed with the civil rights or religious privileges of the inhabitants ; but the utmost respect for them will be maintained. ,e Whatsoever may be needed for the use of the army will be bought by the proper surveyor, and paid for at the highest prices. The General-in-chief has the satisfaction to say that he confides in the patriotism and discipline of the army under his command, and that he feels sure that his orders will be obeyed with the utmost exactness. Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. /. commanding." The march of the army was of the most toilsome and exhausting nature. The country over which they moved was sterile, and destitute of vegetation, except the wiry grass of the prairie ; and its surface was varied only by slight elevations, never rising to the dignity of hills, and by occasional skirtings of stunted wood, in which the musquete and prickly pear were predominant. As they proceeded further south, the country became more desolate, till they entered the solitudes of a vast desert, where vegetation was suspended, and the weary soldier, encumbered with his burden, was ready to sink with exhaustion from the heat of a tropic sun and his toilsome progress over loose and burning sands like heated ashes, into which, at every step, the foot descended. At times, when faint with marching and fevered with thirst, the failing energies of nature were exhilarated by the appearance of blue mountains in the distance, beautiful lakes skirted with trees, and fields clothed with verdure—and the soldier forgot his suffering and toil in expectation of hospitable shade and refreshing streams ; but as he advanced he either discovered that the mirage had spread a false verdure and beauty over barren sands, that mocked his sight, and then faded utterly away, or found the groves he had descried impenetrable thickets of thorn and cactus, that refused him shelter, and the glassy lakes pools of brine, which maddened the thirst they mocked. Beyond this, and approaching the Arroya Colorado, the country was much improved in appearance—the wood was increased in quantity and of better growth, and the soil changed from sand to a dark-coloured clay, and covered with vegetation and flowers. The supply of fresh water, too, was abundant, and the troops in a measure forgot the hardships they had passed. As General Taylor advanced, he formed a junction of the Dragoons and First and Second Brigades, and on the th he came to the Arroya Colorado, a narrow inlet of the sea, where the enemy made some demonstrations of an intention to resist his march. After ordering a reconnoissance, he made dispositions to cross the river, and effected the passage without opposition from the enemy. The following letter to the War Department gives a detailed account of the affair :— "HEAD-QUARTERS, AMY' OF OCCUPATION, Camp Three Miles south of the Arroya Colorado, March , . cc SIR :—I respectfully report that my forces are now concentrated at this point, the Third Brigade having joined me to-day. We are nearly north of Matamoros, and about thirty miles distant. cc The Arroya Colorado is a salt river, or rather lagoon, nearly one hundred yards broad, and so deep as barely to be fordable. It would have formed a serious obstruction to our march had the enemy chosen to occupy its right bank, even with a small force. On the th, the advanced corps encamped within three miles of the ford, and a reconnoissance was pushed forward to the river. A party of irregular cavalry (rancheros) was discovered on the opposite bank, but threw no obstacle in the way of examining the ford. They, however, signified to the officer charged with the reconnoissance that it would be considered an act of hostility if we attempted to pass the river, and that we should, in that case, be treated as enemies. Under these circumstances, not knowing the amount of force that might be on the other bank, I deemed it prudent to make dispositions to pass the river under fire, for which please see my Orders,' No. . At an early hour on the th, the Cavalry and First Brigade of Infantry were in position at the ford, the batteries of field artillery being so placed as to sweep the opposite bank. While these dispositions were in progress, the party that had shown themselves the day before again made their appearance. I sent Captain Mansfield to communicate with the officer in command, who said that he had positive orders to fire upon us if we attempted to cross the river. Another party then made its appearance, and passed the river to communicate with me. One of them (who was represented as the adjutant-general of the Mexican troops) repeated substantially what had been sent before, viz. : that they had peremptory orders to fire upon us, and that it would be considered a declaration of war if we passed the river. He placed in my hands, at the same time, a proclamatron of General Mejia, issued at Matamoros, a day or two previous, which I enclose. I informed the officer that I should immediately cross the river, and if any of his party showed themselves on the other bank after the passage commenced, they would receive the fire of our artillery. In the mean time, the Second Brigade (which had encamped some miles in my rear) came up and formed on the extreme right. The crossing was then commenced and executed in the order prescribed. Not a shot was fired ; and a reconnoissance of cavalry, sent immediately forward, discovered the party which had occupied the bank retreating in the direction of Matamoros. Agreeably to my orders, they were not molested. The Cavalry and First and Second Brigades of Infantry, with a train of two hundred wagons, crossed over and encamped at this point, three miles distant, at an early hour in the afternoon. c I have thought proper to make a detailed report of this operation, as being the first occasion on which the Mexicans have shown themselves in an attitude decidedly hostile. It has also furnished an excellent opportunity for the instruction of the troops, and for displaying their discipline and spirit, which, I am gratified to be able to say, were everything that could be desired. cc I am compelled to remain at this point until joined by the supply train of the Third Brigade, which is unavoidably in the rear. On the d, at latest, I expect to resume the march, but am not fully decided as to the direction. While Matamoros is the point to be ultimately attained, it is necessary, at the same time, to cover our supplies, which will soon arrive at Point Isabel. tc From the best information I am able to obtain, the enemy is not in force on this side of the Rio Grande. A few rancheros are still on the route hence to Matamoros. It is believed that there may be nearly two thousand troops in that place, but what a proportion of regular troops I cannot state with confidence. The arrival of General Ampudia is expected from the interior ; but the accounts I receive of his movements are quite contradictory. tt I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." Of the proclamation to which General Taylor alludes in the foregoing letter, we give as much as is necessary to show that the Mexicans considered the advance of the Americans into their territory as equivalent to a declaration of war. cc The general-in-chief of the forces assembled against the enemy, to the inhabitants of this department and the troops under his command. " FELLOW-CITIZENS :—The annexation of the department of Texas to the United States, projected and consummated by the tortuous policy of the cabinet of the Union, does not yet satisfy the ambitious desires of the degenerate sons of Washington. The civilized world has already recognised in that act all the marks of injustice, iniquity, and the most scandalous violation of the rights of nations. Indelible is the stain which will for ever darken the character for virtue falsely attributed to the people of the United States ; and posterity will regard with horror their perfidious conduct, and the immorality of the means employed by them to carry into effect that most degrading depredation. The right of conquest has always been a crime against humanity ; but nations jealous of their dignity and reputation have endeavoured at least to cover it by the splendour of arms and the prestige of victory. To the United States it has been reserved to put in practice dissimulation, fraud, and the basest treachery, in order to obtain possession, in the midst of peace, of the territory of a friendly nation, which generously relied upon the faith of promises and the solemnity of treaties. cc The cabinet of the United States does not, however, stop in its career of usurpation. Not only does it aspire to the possession of the department of Texas, but it covets also the regions on the left bank of the Rio Bravo. Its army, hitherto for some time stationed at Corpus Christi, is now advancing to take possession of a large part of Tamaulipas ; and its vanguard has arrived at the Arroya Colorado, distant eighteen leagues from this place. What expectations, therefore, can the Mexican government have of treating with an enemy, who, whilst endeavouring to lull us into security, by opening diplomatic negotiations, proceeds to occupy a territory which never could have been the object of the pending discussion ? The limits of Texas are certain and recognised ; never have they extended beyond• the river Neuces ; notwithstanding which, the American army has crossed the line separating Tamaulipas from that department. Even though Mexico could forget that the United States urged and aided the rebellion of the former colonists, and that the principle, giving to an independent people the right to annex itself to another nation, is not applicable to the case, in which the latter has been the protector of the independence of the former, with the object of admitting it into its own bosom ; even though it could be accepted as an axiom of international law, that the violation of every rule of morality and justice might serve as a legitimate title for acquisition ; nevertheless, the territory of Tamaulipas would still remain beyond the-law of annexation, sanctioned by the American Congress; because that law comprises independent Texas, the ground occupied by the rebellious colony, and in no wise includes other departments, in which the Mexican government has uninterruptedly exercised its legitimate authority. c Fellow-countrymen : With an enemy which respects not its own laws, which shamelessly derides the very principles invoked by it previously, in order to excuse its ambitious views, we have no other resource than arms. We are fortunately always prepared to take them up with glory, in defence of our country ; little do we regard the blood in our veins, when we are called on to shed it in vindication of our honour, to assure our nationality and independence. If to the torrent of devastation which threatens us it be necessary to oppose a dike of steel, our swords will form it ; and on their sharp points will the enemy receive the fruits of his anticipated conquest. If the banks of the Panuco have been immortalized by the defeat of an enemy, respectable and worthy of the valour of Mexico, those of the Bravo shall witness the ignominy of the proud sons of the north, and its deep waters shall serve as the sepulchre of those who dare to approach it. The flame of patriotism which burns in our hearts will receive new fuel from the odious presence of the conquerors ; and the cry of Dolores and Iguala shall be re-echoed with harmony to our ears, when we take up our march to oppose our naked breasts to the rifles of the hunters of the Mississippi. *	• FRANCISCO MEJIA. MATAMOROS, March , ." On the evening of the st, the Third Brigade crossed the Colorado and encamped near the other brigades, and the whole rested on the , to enable the ox-teams to come up, which had been left behind in order to accelerate the movements of the troops. General Taylor had intended to march direct to Matamoros, but hearing that the Mexicans in force occupied Point Isabel, the contemplated depot for his military stores, and unwilling to leave an enemy in his rear, so as to endanger his subsistence, he changed his intention and marched upon Point Isabel. That he might be ready in case of emergency to form the troops in line of battle with great readiness, the order of march was in four columns, the Dragoons being on the right, the Third Brigade on the left, and the First and Second Brigades in the centre. On the th, upon reaching a point on the route from Matamoros to Point Isabel, eighteen miles from the former, and ten from the latter place, he learned that Point Isabel was not occupied by troops, and directed General Worth to move towards Matamoros, while he himself proceeded with the dragoons and the empty wagons of the train to Point Isabel. On approaching the place, General Taylor was met by a deputation of citizens of the state of Tamaulipas, who came to present a protest of the Prefect against his advance into their country. He promised to give them an audience when he halted the troops, but when near Point Isabel, thee rising smoke indicated that the Mexicans had fired the place ; when he dismissed the deputation, informing them that he would answer their protest when opposite to Matamoros. Having detached Colonel Twiggs with the advance of the dragoons to arrest the flames, General Taylor found on his arrival that the conflagration had done but little damage ; and had the further good fortune to find that, agreeably to his well concerted arrangements, the steamboats from Corpus Christi with the supplies, had just entered the port. The protest to which we have referred was as follows :— "Office of the Prefect of the Northern District of the Department of Tamaulipas. "God and Liberty ! "SANTA Rim, March , . cc Sfa : Although the pending question respecting the annexation of the department of Texas to the United States is subject to the decision of the supreme government of Mexico, the fact of the advance of the army, under your excellency's orders, over the line occupied by you at Corpus Christi, places me under the necessity, as the chief political authority of the northern district of Taniaulipas, to address you, as I have now the honour to do, through the commissioners, who will place this in your hands, and to inform you that the people under this prefecture, being justly alarmed at the invasion of an army, which, without any previous declaration of war, and without announcing explicitly the object proposed by it, comes to occupy a territory which never belonged to the insurgent province, cannot regard with indifference a proceeding so contrary to the conduct observed towards each other by civilized nations, and to the clearest principles of the law of nations ; that, directed by honour and patriotism, and certain that nothing has been said officially by the cabinet of the Union to the Mexican government, respecting the extension of the limits of. Texas to the left bank of the Rio Bravo, trusting in -themell-knoWn justice of their cause, and using their natural right of defence, they (the citizens of this district) protest, in the most solemn manner, that neither now nor at any time do they, or will they consent to separate themselves from the Mexican republic, and to unite themselves with the United States, and that they are resolved to carry this firm determination into effect, resisting, so far as their strength will enable them, at all times and places, until the army under your excellency's orders shall recede and occupy its former positions ; because, so long as it remains within the territory of Tamaulipas, the inhabitants must consider that whatsoever protestations of peace may be made, hostilities have been openly commenced by your excellency, the lamentable consequences of which will rest before the world exclusively on the heads of the invaders. ci I have the honour to say this to your excellency, with the object indicated, and to assure you of my consideration and esteem. JENES CARDENAS. JUAN JOSE PINED. To General Z. TAYLOR, &C." As Point Isabel was to be the depot of all military stores for the Army of Occupation, it was accordingly surveyed with a view to its defence, and Captain Sanders of the Engineers ordered to construct the necessary works. In addition to the troops originally intended for the defence of the post, Captain Porter's company was ordered to the place as a reinforcement; and the whole placed under the command of Major Monroe. Having thrown forward a sufficient amount of supplies towards Matamoros, General Taylor proceeded with the dragoons and staff to join General Worth, who had advanced with the brigades on the th six miles towards Matamoros, and again three miles on the th, encamping at Palo Alto, near the place where the battle afterwards occurred, and which General Taylor then indicated as the place which the enemy would probably select, should he desire to meet them in an open field. The junction of the troops was effected on the th, and orders issued to march on the th for the town of Matamoros. At eight o'clock, on the morning of the th, the troops were put in motion ; and after a march through a beautiful and picturesque country, reached the Rio Grande opposite Matamoros at eleven o'clock A. M., and planted upon its banks the standard of the cc Stripes and Stars." The point of destination had been gained. At their feet rolled the waters of the far-famed river, and beyond rose the city of Matamoros in its beauty, with the Mexican colours gaily flying from the Place d'Artillerie, the quarters of the military commandant, and the prominent places of the city. When the American flag was spread to the breeze, its presence was greeted by the cross of St. George, and the French and Spanish colours run up from the different consulates. As the American troops advanced towards the Rio Grande, large parties of irregular Mexican troops retreated before them, by whom two of our dragoons, far in advance of the rest, were captured, which created some excitement among our soldiers. CHAPTER VI. Interview between General Worth and the Authorities of Matamoros—Intrenchmeats thrown up—Fort Brown—Murder of Colonel Cross—Arrival of General Ampudia—Artful Address to the Foreigners in the American Army—Correspondence between Ampudia and General Taylor—Blockade of the Rio Grande—First Rencontre—Body of Colonel Cross found—The Burial—Arista's Arrival—Proclamation of Paredes—Correspondence between Arista and Taylor—Recapitulation of the Causes of the War. DIRECTLY after the planting of the American colours on the Rio Grande, General Worth and staff were directed to cross the river with an open communication for General Mejia, the commander of the Mexican forces in Matamoros, and a sealed one for the civil authorities. General Mejia, on a point of etiquette, refused to receive General Worth in person ; but, after some delay, General Vega, representing the military authorities of Matamoros, and the Licenciado Casares the civil authorities, were deputed to meet General Worth and receive any communication which he had to make from his commanding-general. In the interview which took place, General Vega complained of the march of the American troops into the department of Tamaulipas as an act of aggression ; to which General Worth replied that the question of the right of territory was a matter to be settled by the two governments. Finding that General Mejia refused to receive from him the despatch with which he was charged, General Worth withdrew it, but delivered to the Licenciado Casares the sealed document for the civil authorities. During the interview, General Worth repeatedly requested permission to see the American Consul, and, when finally refused, stated that the refusal was considered a belligerent act ; and, after announcing that the commanding-general would regard the passage of any armed party of Mexicans across the Rio Grande as an act of war, promptly terminated the conference. Both parties now prepared for the contest which was inevitable. General Taylor ordered Major Mansfield of the Engineers to make the necessary surveys and throw up suitable works, while the Mexicans were active in strengthening their former defences and establishing new ones. On the th the Mexicans mounted a heavy gun in a battery of sand-bags, and contemplated a night attack. The reported crossing of a large body of cavalry led General Taylor to believe their object was to attack Point Isabel, while at the same time they opened their batteries on the troops opposite Matamoros. Accordingly he gave out the watchword and ordered the men to sleep upon their arms, while he despatched Captain May with a squadron of dragoons to reach Point Isabel, twenty-seven miles distant, in the space of four hours, to put Major Monroe on his guard and reinforce the garrison. The morning of the th dawned, however, without an attack, and the Mexicans lost the golden opportunity of assailing their enemy while encamped in open field. The defences under Major Mansfield, an active and accomplished officer, were prosecuted with energy. By the th of April a battery was completed for four -pounders, and the guns placed in battery bearing "directly upon the public square of Matamoros, and within good range for demolishing the town." In rear of the battery they broke ground on the th for the principal intrenchment, a strong field-fort with six bastions, capable of holding two thousand men. It was afterwards named Fort Brown, in honour of the brave Major Brown who was killed in its defence. Along the Rio Grande on either side, fronting each other for the space of two miles, thus lay the hostile armies within musket-range—their batteries shotted—the guns pointed at each other—and the officers and men impatient for the order to light the matches, and commence the work of destruction. On the th, Colonel Trueman Cross, Deputy Quartermaster-General of the army, rode out as usual for air and exercise, but the day passed away without his return, and fearful apprehensions began to be felt for his safety, as the country was known to be full of rancheros, or irregular cavalry, who were prowling about for plunder, and spared neither age nor rank. Towards evening cannon were fired to direct him, if lost, and parties were subsesequently out to search for him. Letters were also sent to the commandant at Matamoros to inquire for him, but no intelligence could be obtained. On the th, the firing of a salute, the ringing of the church-bells, the music of the bands, and a parade of all the troops in Matamoros, announced the arrival of General Ampudia; and all expected the immediate commencement of hostilities. His advent had been preceded by the following ingenious appeal to the naturalized citizens of the United States in the army of General Taylor, and had probably been suggested by the frequent desertions that had taken place from that class of soldiers:— " The Commander-in-chief of the Mexican Army, to the English and Irish under the orders of the American General Taylor : cc Know ye : That the government of the United States is committing repeated acts of barbarous aggression against the magnanimous Mexican Nation ; that the government which exists under the flag of the stars,' is unworthy of the designation of Christian. Recollect that you were born in Great Britain ; that the American government looks with coldness upon the powerful flag of St. George, and is provoking to a rupture the warlike people to whom it belongs ; President Polk boldly manifesting a desire to take possession of Oregon, as he has already done of Texas. Now, then, come with all confidence tQ the Mexican ranks; and I guaranty to you, upon my honour, good treatment, and that all your expenses shall be defrayed until your arrival in the beautiful capital of Mexico. cg Germans, French, Poles, and individuals of other nations! Separate yourselves from the Yankees, and do not contribute to defend a robbery and usurpation, which, be assured, the civilized nations of Europe look upon with the utmost indignation. Come., therefore, and array yourselves under the tri-coloured flag, in the confidence that the God of armies protects it, and that it will protect you equally with the English. Head-quarters, upon the road to Matamoros, April d, . PEDRO DE AMPUDIA. FRA R. MORENO, df t of the Commander-in-chief." The day after the arrival of General Ampudia in Matamoros, he addressed a letter to General Taylor, in which he required him to withdraw from his position before Matamoros to the other side of the Nueces. It is plainly to be inferred from this letter that the Mexican government would have settled by diplomacy the question of the annexation of Texas, if the American troops had not invaded the department of Tamaulipas. The contents of Ampudia's letter were as follows :— " HEAD-QUARTERS AT MATAMOBOS, o'clock P. M. Fourth Military Division, General-in-Chief. April , . " God and Liberty ! ti To explain to you the many grounds for the just grievances felt by the Mexican nation, caused by the United States government, would be a loss of time, and an insult to your good sense ; I, therefore, pass at once to such explanation as I consider of absolute necessity. cg Your government, in an incredible manner—you will even permit me to say an extravagant one, if the usages, or general rules established and received among all civilized nations are regarded—has not only insulted, but has exasperated the Mexi- can nation, bearing its conquering banner to the left bank of the Rio Bravo del Norte ; and in this case, by explicit and definitive orders of my government, which neither can, will, nor should receive new outrages, I require you in all form, and at latest in the peremptory term of twenty-four hours, to break up your camp and retire to the other bank of the Nueces river, while our governments are regulating the pending question in relation to Texas. If you insist on remaining upon the soil of the department of Tamaulipas, it will clearly result that arms, and arms alone, must decide the question ; and, in that case, I advise you that we accept the war to which, with so much injustice on your part, you provoke us, and that, on our part, this war shall be conducted conformably to the principles established by the most civilized nations; that is to say, that the law of nations and of war shall be the guide of my operations ; trusting that on your part the same will be observed. With this view, I tender you the considerations due to your person and respectable office. PEDRO DE AMPUDIA. Senor General-in-chief of the U. S. Army, Don Z. TAYLOR." General Taylor sent word to Ampudia that he did not require twenty-four hours for deliberation, but would reply at ten o'clock the following day. Shortly after, he removed the First Brigade of his army to the right, out of the range of shot; and early on the morning of the th moved the Second Brigade to the left, out of range, while General Twiggs, with the dragoons and Ringgold's battery, occupied the centre, and the Third Brigade, with Bragg's and Duncan's batteries, took position within the interior' of the field-work. Having made this prudent disposition of his troops in expectation of an immediate attack, General Taylor despatched the following manly reply to the peremptory requisition of General Ampudia " HEAD-QUARTERS AMY OF OCCUPATION. Camp near Matamoros, Texas, April , . ct SENOR I have had the honour to receive your note of this date, in which you summon me to withdraw the forces under my command from their present position, and beyond the river Nueces, until the pending question between our governments, relative to the limits of Texas, shall be settled. ctI need hardly advise you that, charged as I am, m only a military capacity, with the performance of specific duties, I cannot enter into a discussion of the international question involved in the advance of the American army. You will, however, permit me to say, that the government of the United States has constantly sought a settlement, by negotiation, of the question of boundary ; that an envoy was despatched to Mexico for that purpose, and that up to the most recent dates said envoy had not been received by the actual Mexican government, if indeed he has not received his passports and left the republic. In the mean time, I have been ordered to occupy the country up to the left bank of the Rio Grande, until the boundary shall be definitely settled. In carrying out these instructions I have carefully abstained from all acts of hostility, obeying, in this regard, not only the letter of my instructions, but the plain dictates of justice and humanity. tc The instructions under which I am acting will not permit me to retrograde from the position I now occupy. In view of the relations between our respective governments, and the individual suffering which may result, I regret the alternative which you offer; but, at the same time, wish it understood that I shall by no means avoid such alternative, leaving the responsibility with those who rashly commence hostilities. In conclusion, you will permit me to give the assurance that on my part the laws and customs of war among civilized nations shall be carefully observed. tc I have the honour to be, very respectfully, your obedient ser- vant,	Z. TAYLOR. Senor General DON PEDRO DE AMPUDIA." Expecting an attack, and hearing that the enemy were crossing in great numbers, General Taylor despatched the st company of dragoons, th infantry, and Ringgold's battery to meet the train coming from Point Isabel, which arrived in safety on the th. The following day he blockaded the mouth of the river Bravo with the United States brig LaWrence, and a revenue cutter, and, on the th, ordered to the Brazos Santiago two vessels laden with stores for Ampudia's army. This elicited another menacing letter from Ampudia, to which General Taylor replied in a calm and dignified manner, showing that the act was the result of the belligerent attitude which General Ampudia had assumed. On the th, the first conflict took place between the Mexican and American troops. Two days before, Lieutenant Dobbins of the d infantry, and Lieutenant Porter of the th, each with a detachment of two non-commissioned officers and ten privates, left camp for the purpose of finding the body of Colonel Cross, and punishing his murderers. About noon on the th, Lieutenant Porter advanced upon a party of Mexicans, one of whom snapped his piece at him, whereupon he discharged both barrels of his gun, and his men rushing on, captured the camp of the Mexicans, with ten horses and their equipments, and twenty blankets. Late in the evening he met a second larger party, which had probably been joined by those he encountered in the morning, and they immediately fired upon his command. The lieutenant and one of his party fell, when the rest, unable to use their fire-arms on account of the rain, separated and fled. Lieutenant Porter was the son of the late Commodore Porter, and was a gallant young officer, and much esteemed in his regiment. On the st, a Mexican straggler came into camp, and stated that he knew where the body of an American officer was lying, and on sending out a party, the remains of Colonel Cross were found in a thicket, a short distance from the road leading to the river. He was stripped of his clothing, and the flesh was torn away from his body by the vultures. On the d, a board of officers assembled to report upon his death, and came to the conclusion that he was attacked and stripped by the banditti of Romano Falcon, and afterwards slain by that desperado by a blow upon the head from the butt of his pistol. Late in the evening of the th, the remains of the unfortunate colonel were committed to the grave, under an escort composed of a squadron of dragoons and eight companies of infantry, the whole commanded by Colonel Twiggs. The infantry occupied the front of the procession, the dragoons came next, and the body followed, drawn by six horses on the wheels of a caisson, and enveloped in the flag of his country. Next came a solitary mourner, the son of the deceased ; then a war-horse in black led by dragoons, followed by all the officers who were not upon duty. From the opposite bank of the river, and from the enemy's works, groups of officers and soldiers looked upon the procession, as the body was borne and laid in its resting-place at the foot of the flag-staff, upon which the flag was at half-mast. Colonel Childs in an impressive manner read the burial-service for the dead,—three volleys were fired over his grave—the flag was run up to its former position, and the dead was left to his repose in silence. Like his predecessor, Arista, when about to assume the command in Matamoros, insidiously endeavoured to corrupt the American soldiery, by disseminating the following artful address, the original draft of which was subsequently found among his baggage when his camp was captured on the th of May:— "General Arista's advice to the Soldiers of the United States Army. HEAD-QUARTERS AT MATAMOROS, April , . gc Soldiers !—You have enlisted in time of peace to serve in that army for a specific term ; but your obligation never implied that -you were bound to violate the laws of God, and the most sacred rights of friends ! The United States government, contrary to the wishes of a majority of all honest and honourable Americans, has ordered you to take forcible possession of the territory of a friendly neighbour, who has never given her consent to such occupation. In other words, while the treaty of peace and commerce between Mexico and the United States is in full force, the United States, presuming on her strength and prosperity, and on our supposed imbecility and cowardice, attempts to make you the blind instruments of her unholy and mad ambition, and force you to appear as the hateful robbers of our dear homes, and the unprovoked violators of our dearest feelings as men and patriots. Such villany and outrage, I know, is perfectly repugnant to the noble sentiments of any gentleman, and it is base and foul to rush you on to certain death, in order to aggrandize a few lawless individuals, in defiance of the laws of God and man ! ic It is to no purpose if they tell you, that the law for the annexation of Texas justifies your occupation of the Rio Bravo del Norte ; for by this act they rob us of a great part of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, Chihuahua, and New Mexico; and it is barbarous to send a handful of men on such an errand against a powerful and warlike nation. Besides, the most of you are Europeans, and we are the declared friends of a majority of the nations of Europe. The North Americans are ambitious, overbearing, and insolent as a nation, and they will only make use of you as vile tools to carry out their abominable plans of pillage and rapine. cc I warn you in the name of justice, honour, and your own interests and self-respect, to abandon their desperate and unholy cause, and become peaceful Mexican citizens. I guarantee you, in such case, a half section of land, or three hundred and twenty acres, to settle upon, gratis. Be wise, then, and just, and honourable, and take no part in murdering us who have no unkind feelings for you. Lands shall be given to officers, sergeants, and corporals, according to rank, privates receiving three hundred and twenty acres, as stated. ci If, in time of action, you wish to espouse our cause, throw sway your arms and run to us, and we will embrace you as true friends and Christians. It is not decent nor prudent to say more. But should any of you render important service to Mexico, you shall be accordingly considered and preferred. M. ARISTA, Commander-in-chief of the .Mezican ./irmy." On the d of April, General Paredes issued a proclamation of defensive war to the people of Mexico, from which we make the following extracts :— cc At the time Mr. Slidell presented himself, the troops of the United States occupied our territory, their squadrons threatened our ports, and they prepared to occupy the peninsula of the Califomias, of which the question of the Oregon with England is only a preliminary. Mr. Slidell was not received, because the dignity of the nation repelled this new insult. Meanwhile the army of the United States encamped at Corpus Christi, and occupied the Isla del Padre; following this, they then moved to the point Santo Isabel, and their standard of the stars and stripes waved on the right bank of the Rio Bravo del Norte, opposite the city of Mata- moros, blockading that river with their vessels of war. The vil- lage of Laredo was surprised by a party of their troops, and a small party of our men, reconnoitring there, were disarmed. Hostilities, then, have been commenced, by the United States of North America, beginning new conquests upon the frontier territories of the departments of Tamaulipas and New Leon, and progressing at such a rate, that troops of the same United States threaten Monterey in Upper California. No one can doubt which of the two republics is responsible for this war: a war which any sense of equity and justice, and respect for the rights and laws of civilized nations, might have avoided. I( I have commanded the General-in-chief of our forces-on the F. Northern frontier, to repel all hostilities offered to us, which is actual war against any power making war on us, and calling upon the God of battles, He will preserve the valour of our troops, the unquestionable right to our territory, and the honour of those arms which are used only in defence of justice. Our general will govern himself by the established usages of civilized warfare. With orders from me to prevent, if possible, the effusion of blood, he will intimate to the General-in-chief of the American troops that he shall return to the other,side of the Rio de las Nueces, the ancient limits of Texas. Those nations interested in preserving the peace of so many years, and who may be injured in their commercial relations with the Mexican republic, will perceive the hard alternative to which they are reduced, by the politic invasion of the United States, and they (the nations) must succumb or defend their existence thus compromised. I solemnly announce that I do not declare war against the United States of America, because it pertains to the august Congress of that nation, and not to the Executive, to settle definitely the reparation which so many aggressions demand. cc But the defence of the Mexican territory, which the United States troops invade, is an urgent necessity, and my responsibility would be immense before the nation, if I did not give commands to repel those forces who act like enemies, and I have so commanded. From this day commences a defensive war, and those points of our territory which are invaded or attacked will be energetically defended." On the th, a grand review and great military rejoicing, announced the arrival of Arista in Matamoros. In the evening a parley was sounded on the Mexican side of the river, and a messenger brought to General Taylor the following letter directed to ce the General-in-chief of the forces of the United States encamped opposite Matamoros." Zt MEXICAN ARMY. cc The course of events since the annexation of Texas to the United States was declared, has been so clearly hostile to Mexico, and so foreign to the dignity and principles which the Americans have proclaimed to the world, that we come to the conclusion that their policy has changed, and their moderation is turned into a desire of aggrandizement, enriching themselves by humiliating their neighbours. cc The respect and consideration that friendly nations show to each other have been trampled upon, by which reason the justice and excessive moderation of Mexico shine forth still more. Pressed and forced into war, we enter into a struggle, that cannot be avoided without failing in what is most sacred in man. cc Political discussions do not appertain to military men, but to diplomatic agents; to us belongs the part to act, without it occasioning any surprise that the troops under my command should not wait for anything else to give battle. ct We Mexicans have been calumniated as barbarous, in the most caustic and unjust terms ; the occasion has arrived to show what we are, and I do not believe that in the troops under my command there will be any cause to confirm such suppositions, as they will cause to shine the feelings of humanity and generosity that distinguish them. cc For the first time, I have the honour to offer your Excellency my great consideration. God and liberty! MARIANO ARISTA. HEAD-QUARTERS, MATAMOROS, April , ." This official communication was accompanied by a polite private note, in which General Arista announced his intention to conduct the war in which they were about to engage according to the laws which courtesy and humanity impose on modern civilization. We have now traced the progress of events from the first mis- understanding between 'the two countries to the commencement of actual hostilities; and, notwithstanding the belligerent attitude which Mexico assumed by recalling her minister immediately after the annexation of Texas to the United States, it is evident, from the subsequent actions and correspondence of the Mexican authorities, that war would not have occurred, had it not been for the advance of the American army into territory which Mexico believed to be, and which was, a part, not of Texas but of Mexico. But we not only invaded the territory of the Mexican republic ; we first commenced hostilities, when on the th of April (‘ Lieutenant Porter, at the head of his own detachment, surprised a Mexican camp, drove away the men, and took possession of their horses."* Though we are obliged, in candour, to make these admissions, we would not be understood as holding the opinion that there were not just grounds for war against a country which had outraged the American flag, imprisoned our citizens and confiscated their property, and violated the solemn faith of treaties. But, while there existed so many causes, all or any of which would have justified a declaration of war on our part, it is a matter of supreme regret, that, after the magnanimous forbearance which we had exhibited towards Mexico, and unwillingness to appeal to the last resort of nations, war was at length brought on by an act, and in a manner, totally unjustifiable. When the Mexican minister Almonte, after the annexation of Texas, demanded his passports and menaced war, all usage, both ancient and modern, of civilized nations, would have justified the American Congress in declaring immediate war, and ordering the armies of the republic into Mexico, without waiting for her to strike the first blow. But, while the Congress of the United States is disposed to continue the exercise of that magnanimous forbearance which had characterized her intercourse with a sister republic, the Executive, by an assumption of power not warranted in *General Taylor's Letter to the Secretary of War, April . .V. the Constitution, and without the knowledge and consent of Congress, orders the American army into the territory of Mexico and precipitates the country into war. Had it not been for this, no conflict in arms between the republics would have arises, and the outpouring of blood and treasure expended upon this contest would have been avoided ; for it is evident, that, although Mexico felt herself aggrieved by the annexation of Texas to the United States, neither the people nor the government would have seriously contemplated war on that account, had not the invasion of the Mexican territory been superadded. It is true, Mexico had no just cause of offence in the case of Texas, for that republic, free and independent, had a right to dispose of her own territory as she pleased ; but some degree of allowance and forbearance was due even to the prejudices of a country which had seen a portion of its territory dismembered by those who had formerly been citizens of the United States, and afterwards annexed to that country. If a little time had been allowed for the wounded pride of Mexico to heal, and we had abstained from aggression upon her territory, better feelings and better counsels would have prevailed with her, and a treaty alike honourable to both would have arranged all difficulties between us. If the Rio Grande was desirable as a boundary., instead of the great desert, which was the true boundary, a very small part of the money that has been expended in the war, would have secured it to the nation by purchase. I love my country much—I honour her brave sons—I admire the gallant chiefs and their soldiery, who throughout this war have wreathed their brows with the laurels of victory—I venerate the mighty dead, who with garments dyed in blood,' have made their beds of glory upon the battle-field, and have bequeathed names of immortality to the republic ; but the love of truth with a historian should be paramount to the love of country. The eye of justice should not be blinded by the blaze of glory; and, what- ever splendour has crowned the achievements of our troops in this war—however widely the power and majesty of our arms by means of it have been spread abroad among the nations, I can but feel that the manner in which it was brought on, was unjust, and reprehend as dangerous to the republic the precedent that has been set by the Executive, of involving the nation in war without the privity and consent of Congress. Of what avail are the guaranties of the constitution that Congress alone shall declare war, when the American Executive can, at any time, bring on a war, by ordering the troops of the republic into foreign territory, or even into territory which we claim that lies in dispute ? In the case of this weaker neighbour, though great have been the sacrifices of life and treasure, the consequences have not been serious ; but who can imagine what the end would have been, if, in the dispute about Oregon, the President, without consulting Congress, had ordered the American army to the boundary as claimed in ° ' ? Another serious evil is, that a war thus brought on without preparation has for a time to be sustained with the inadequate men and means of a peace establishment ; and thus, at the onset, the prestige of victory may be in favour of the enemy, and to some extent influence the future contest. In , with that prudent forecast for which he is remarkable, General Scott had recommended an increase of the army by filling up the skeleton regiments, but his prudent suggestions were neglected both by Congress and the President. In everything there was a want of due preparation. The meagre force comprising the Army of Occupation, was collected by withdrawing the troops from the forts and military posts, which in many cases upon the seaboard and the frontier were thus left without a garrison, while even for this small force, thrown forward into an enemy's territory, like a forlorn hope, to provoke and bring on a war, the provision for munitions, subsistence, and transporta- CHAPTER VII. Capture of Captain Thornton's Command—Exultation of the Enemy—Council-ofwar—Contemplated Attack of Arista—Arrival of Captain Walker—Skirmish with the Mexicans—Arista crosses the Rio Grande—March of General Taylor to Point Isabel—Garrison of Fort Brown—Religious Ceremonies—Bombardment of Fort Brown—Death of Major Brown—Arista's Summons to surrender—Hawkins's Reply—Battle of Palo Alto heard at Fort Brown—Resaca de la Palma—Mexican Fugitives. REPORTS having reached the American camp, that the Mexicans were crossing the river above and below, in great force, Captain Ker was despatched to the lower ford with a body of dragoons to ascertain the truth of the report, and on the evening of the th Captain Thornton was despatched to the upper ford, for the like purpose, accompanied by Captain Hardee, Lieutenants Kane and Mason, and sixty-one non-commissioned officers and privates. Captain Ker returned with his party without discovering any of the enemy. Thornton proceeded with his command up the river about twenty-four miles, and as he supposed within about three miles of the camp of the enemy, when his Mexican guide refused to proceed further, from a belief that the whole country was occupied by Mexican soldiers. Thornton with his command pressed on about two miles further, when he reached a farm-house enclosed by a thicket of chaparral, except on the side lying next to the river. The ground in this direction was boggy and impassable. Entering the enclosure through a pair of bars, Thornton with his command approached the house, when by a sudden firing from the surrounding chaparral, the Americans perceived that they were encompassed by the enemy, who were afterwards found to be about twenty-five hundred in number. Promptly wheeling his command, Thornton ordered a charge, and attempted to escape by the way he had entered, but the dense files of the enemy prevented. Captain Hardee now rode up to offer some suggestion, when a shot struck Captain Thorn-ton's horse, and the beast, maddened by the wound, ran with him towards the chaparral, cleared it at a bound, and plunging down a precipice with his rider, fell to the earth. The captain lay insensible for some hours, after which his consciousness returned, when, mounting his charger, which like himself was badly wounded, he endeavoured to make his way to the American camp. Before he reached it, however, he was taken by a party of the enemy, and carried to Matamoros. As soon as the misfortune occurred to Thornton, Captain Hardee assumed command, and dashing towards the river bank, with the view of swimming the river, he found that the marshy ground prevented escape. Determined then on a vigorous resistance, he dismounted his men, and examined their pieces ; but while thus engaged, a Mexican officer came up and demanded a surrender. Hardee agreed to surrender, provided he and his men would be treated agreeably to the usages of civilized warfare. The message was borne by the officer to his commanding-general, who gave assurance that the prisoners should be treated with humanity. Captain Hardee then surrendered, and he and his men were carried to Matamoros, where they were kindly treated by the Mexicans. General Torrejon commanded the enemy's forces in this engagement. Their success was owing to their numbers and the complete concealment afforded to their ambuscade by the chaparral. The American loss was one lieutenant, two sergeants, and eight privates killed, and fifty-three prisoners. The loss, inconsiderable as it was in numbers, was notwithstanding important, depriving the American commander of nearly one-third of the mounted force on the Rio Grande. General Arista, on receiving the news of this skirmish, affected to consider it a great victory, and addressed the following letter of congratulation to the commander, General Torrejon " MATAMOROS, April . cc This has been a day of rejoicing to all the division of the North, it having this day been known of the triumph achieved by the brigade which your Excellency so worthily commands. The rejoiced country will doubtless celebrate this preliminary of glorious deeds that her happy sons will in future present to her. Your Excellency will communicate to your brave soldiers that I have seen with the greatest pleasure their valiant behaviour, and that I await for the detailed despatch to elevate it to the knowledge of the supreme government, so that the nation may learn the triumph of your arms. MARIANO ARISTA. To Gen. Don ANASTASIO TORRESON." On the evening of the th, after the news of Thornton's defeat reached the American encampment, General Taylor called a council-of-war of a few confidential officers, to take into consideration the propriety of crossing the Rio Grande and attacking Arista at Matamoros. The primary arrangements were all made, and corps selected for the purpose, when the important question presented itself, How could the troops pass the river ? All kinds of schemes and expedients were concerted, but none appeared feasible, and the general reluctantly abandoned it. Could the troops have been transported suddenly over, Arista's forces would have been demolished without fighting at Palo Alto or Resaca de la Palma. Here, as after the battle of the th of May, the improvidence of the War Department was apparent in not furnishing the Army of Occupation with a pontoon train, as had been requested by General Taylor ; while, at the same time, he was under instruc- tions, if attacked, not to limit himself to defensive operations, but carry the war into the enemy's country beyond the Rio Grande.* About this time, Captain Walker, who had been identified with the border struggles of Texas, and one of the Mier prisoners, arrived at Point Isabel with a company of Texan Rangers, and prepared to participate in the contest, in which he subsequently acted so prominent a part. The Mexicans, after the capture of Captain Thornton, had boldly crossed the Rio Grande in large detachments, and spread themselves between General Taylor and the depot at Point Isabel under Major Munroe, with the view of threatening both stations of the American army, and cutting off General Taylor from his supplies. Captain Walker with his command was directed, therefore, by Major Munroe to occupy a position west of the Point, for the purpose of gaining intelligence of the movements of the enemy, and of opening a communication with General Taylor. At this time some teams despatched from Point Isabel to Fort Brown were compelled to return ; and Captain Walker, who went out with his company on the th to reconnoitre, encountered an overwhelming Mexican force, and after a short contest, in which his raw recruits were scattered in confusion, was obliged to retreat, and was pursued to within cannon-range of Point Isabel. Major Munroe had put the Point in the best possible state of defence by strengthening the works, and adding to the regular force the masters and crews of the vessels in port. Still, as he was in expectation of an immediate attack, he desired to inform the commanding-general of his situation ; and Captain Walker, notwithstanding his late discomfiture, volunteered his services to carry any message to General Taylor. Late on the evening of the th, accompanied by six companions, Captain Walker set out on his perilous expedition, and •	Letter to the Secretary of War, August , . CAPT. SAMUEL WALKER. after encountering the most imminent risks of capture, he succeeded in delivering his message to General Taylor. The situation of the American commander had now reached a crisis. He must either fall back upon Point Isabel ; or, leaving the garrison there to defend itself, remain at Fort Brown and brave the enemy; or, lastly, attempt with a portion of his forces to open a communication with Point Isabel. To bear back the flag that had been planted on the Rio Grande was out of the question; to remain stationary at Fort Brown, would soon reduce the troops to starvation. Nothing remained, then, but to leave a part of his force at Fort Brown, and with the residue open a communication with Point Isabel, and thus procure for the troops necessary supplies. In doing this he had to encounter the risk of an attack from the enemy upon either of the three portions into which his army would be divided ; but the pressing necessities of his situation rendered the measure imperative, and General Taylor accordingly made arrangements for marching. At four o'clock P. M. on the st May, he marched from Fort Brown with the main body of his army, and passed through the chaparral without meeting the enemy. At midnight the troops halted, fatigued and exhausted, and lay upon their arms in the open prairie, without fires to take of the chillness of the cold and damp night air. On the morning of the d the army resumed its march, and after suffering much from thirst and the heat of the weather, reached Point Isabel about noon. On the evening of General Taylor's departure for Point Isabel, Arista had ordered his, troops to cross the Rio Grande, for the purpose of attacking the Americans. After transporting his forces, he found that the American commander had departed . for Point Isabel ; and, with the vanity peculiar to the Mexican character, he supposed that General Taylor had been aware of his intention, and was desirous of avoiding a meeting, and he construed the march of the American army into a timorous flight from the valiant legions of Mexico. Conceiving the design of cutting off the Americans on their march, the Mexican general despatched his cavalry for that purpose, which accordingly made a forced march by night ; but General Taylor with his troops had already passed beyond the place where the enemy had intended to intercept him. The disappointment which this occasioned the over-confident enemy, was in some measure alleviated by the fact, that General Taylor had left a small garrison in Fort Brown, which would of necessity soon be compelled to surrender to Mexican valour. The following document, from El Monitor Republicano of Matamoros, a semi-official paper, is a specimen of the arrogant and vainglorious feelings of the Mexicans on the above occasion. cc On the first of this month, at eleven o'clock in the morning, the general-in-chief left this place to join the army, who, several hours before, had left with the intention of crossing the river at a short distance from the camp of the enemy. In consequence of the orders given, so that this dangerous operation might be performed with due security, and according to the rules of military art, when our troops arrived at the spot designated for the crossing of the river, the left bank was already occupied by General D. Anastasio Torrejon, with all the force under his command. The enthusiasm of our soldiers to conquer the obstacles which separated them from the enemy was so great, that they showed themselves impatient of the delay occasioned by the bad condition of some of the flat-boats, which had been very much injured in the transportation by land, and could not be used, as they would fill up with water as soon as they were launched. In spite of that obstacle, the work went on with such activity, and so great was the ardour of the most excellent general-in-chief, whose orders were obeyed with the greatest promptness and precision, that a few hours were sufficient to transport, to the opposite bank of the Bravo, a strong division, with all its artillery and train. is This rapid and well-combined movement ought to have proved to the invaders not only that the Mexicans possess instruction and aptness for war, but that those qualities are now brought forth by the purest patriotism. The Northern Division, fearless of fatigue, and levelling all difficulties, ran to seek an enemy who, well sheltered under parapets, and defended with guns of a large calibre, could wait for the attack with indisputable advantage. With deep trenches, with a multitude of fortifications, the defence was easy against those who presented themselves with their naked breasts. ig But General Taylor dared not resist the valour and enthusiasm of the sons of Mexico. Well did he foresee the intrepidity with which our soldiers would rush against the usurpers of the national territory. Well did he know the many injuries which were to be avenged by those who had taken up arms, not to aggrandize themselves with the spoils of the property of others, but to maintain the independence of their country. Well did he know, we repeat it, that the Mexicans would be stopped neither by trenches, or fortresses, or large artillery. Thus it was that the chief of the American forces, frightened as soon as he perceived from the situation and proximity of his camp, that our army were preparing to cross the river, left with precipitation for Point Isabel, with almost all his troops, eight pieces of artillery, and a few wagons. Their march was observed from our position, and the most excellent General D. Francisco Mejia immediately sent an express extraordinary to communicate the news to the most excellent general-in-chief. Here let me pay to our brave men the tribute which they deserve. The express verbally informed some of the troops, which had not yet arrived at the ford, of the escape of the Americans ; in one instant, all the soldiers spontaneously crossed the river, almost racing one with another. Such was the ardour with which they crossed the river to attack the enemy. ic The terror and haste with which the latter fled to the fort, to shut themselves up in it and avoid a conflict, frustrated the active measures of the most excellent Senor General Arista, which were to order the cavalry to advance in the plain and cut off the flight of the fugitives. But it was not possible to do so, notwithstanding their forced march during the night. General Taylor left his camp at two o'clock in the afternoon, and, as fear has wings, he succeeded in shutting himself up in the fort. When our cavalry reached the point where they were to detain him, he had already passed, and was several leagues ahead. Great was the sorrow of our brave men, not to have been able to meet the enemy face to face ; their defeat was certain, and the main body of that invading army, who thought that they inspired the Mexicans with so much respect, would have disappeared in the first important battle. But there was some fighting to be done ; and the Americans do not know how to use 'other arms but those of duplicity and treachery. Why did they not remain with firmness under their colours ? Why did they abandon the ground which they pretend to usurp with such iniquity? Thus has an honourable general kept his word. Had not General Taylor said, in all his communications, that he was prepared to repel all hostilities ? Why, then, does he fly in so cowardly a manner to shut himself up at the Point ? The commander-inchief of the American army has covered himself with opprobrium and ignominy in sacrificing a part of his forces, whom he left in the fortifications, to save himself; for it is certain that he will not return to their assistance—not that he is ignorant of their peril, but he calculates that this would be greater if he had the temerity of attempting to resist the Mexican lances and bayonets in the open plain." The garrison left in Fort Brown consisted of the th infantry, Captain Loud's company of d artillery, in charge of four -pounders, and Lieutenant Bragg with his light battery of four pieces ; all under the command of Major Jacob Brown, a veteran .rA MOWING THE POSITIONS Fort Farm MAN A N MEXICAN TROOPS tf• • • st J • • Astet‘tc. •	MA TAM o o s !-• ••• ot• # *;" : -•	eq l'i•Otelp al Boiler.- F! BROW; . I./liar:tied A Fort Pa rrde S oburb of An a c nita I. If owitzrr s {' . rl CEATTRE or TWIT CITY AL TAMORO officer of great bravery. He was instructed to expend as little ammunition as possible, not to attempt offensive operations, and to defend the post to the last. Certain signals were arranged to be given by means of the -pounders, which were to be fired at half past six o'clock A. M., in case of the investment of the fort, or any particular accident. On the afternoon of May st, Major Brown had his tents pitched, divided his forces to the several bastions, six in number, and apportioned the six senior officers to the command of them, viz : No. , Captain Hawkins ; No. , Captain Lee ; No. , Captain Miles ; No. , Captain Loud ; No. , Brevet Major Sewall, and No. , Captain Holmes. On the morning of the d of May, all hands were turned out at the earliest dawn to work on the east bastion, by the gate ; it had not yet been touched. By dint of hard labour, the ditch was dug and the parapet raised to some extent; when, just before sunset, officers' and men's attention was called to what was going on at Matamoros. There seemed to be a grand parade and festival ; the bells rung continually, soldiers marched and countermarched ; and at last was perceived a train of priests, monks, and friars, going round from battery to battery, consecrating and blessing the guns, shot, and shell. This pious ceremony continued until the night had set in, and convinced all who reflected, that it was a prelude to an attack. Accordingly the guards were doubled, and orders given for reveille at an earlier hour than usual. On the morning of the d, reveille beat and finished, when the Mexicans commenced theirs. The shrill bugles poured forth their discordant music amid the continued peal of their bells, for a longer period than usual, until the streaks of dawn made everything visible to the east, when the report of a gun was heard, and turning the eye quickly towards Matamoros, the first shell was seen as it was passing the bright and beautiful star Venus, whose tardiness in retiring to rest, seemed only to await this signal of the bloody strife, in this first gun of the war. In quick succession followed many discharges from a battery of seven guns, upon the American works ; the garrison was soon in a condition of resistance, and Loud opened with the -pounders upon the fort and town with tremendous effect, the consulate flags being respected. In twenty minutes after the American fire opened, an -pound ball struck one of the Mexican twelve-pounders directly in the muzzle, and dismounted it, wounding and maiming the officers and men that manned it. This incident, and the hotness of the American fire, so disconcerted the enemy, that the whole battery was silenced immediately after. The enemy then commenced firing shot and shell from the lower fort and mortar battery, but without doing any damage, though the cannonade continued with little interruption until night. As soon as the cannonade commenced, one-third of the garrison were left to man the bastions, and the rest were directed to repair to the east bastion gate and drawbridge and finish it. To complete the curtain connecting the flanks of the north and east bastions, the troops worked under a continued shower of shot and shell for twenty-four hours without intermission, till it was completed. The men became more exposed as the parapet rose, and the enemy taking advantage of it, directed their guns upon the labourers, but without effect. The only man killed was Sergeant Weigart. As the garrison found that their fire did but little execution except to the houses of the town, it was deemed prudent to suspend the cannonade, with the view of saving ammunition. The firing accordingly ceased at ten o'clock. From this circumstance, however, the enemy inferred our loss was severe, and that their fire had silenced our guns On the th of May, the firing from the enemy's batteries was continued during the day. The men in the garrison having completed the defences at and around the east bastion, were now busily employed in making bomb-proofs for security against the iron tempest that relentlessly assailed them. They were built at points convenient for the soldiers when in their stations, and were formed by layers of barrels of pork, with poles laid across, and the whole covered with embankments of earth. At nine o'clock in the evening, an irregular firing of musketry was heard in the rear of the fort, at a distance of three or four hundred yards, and extending up the river about a mile. Major Brown, supposing that the storming of the fort would take place immediately, put the entire garrison under arms, and ordered all the batteries and defences to be manned ; but the assault was not attempted. During the night the enemy erected a battery in the field, which was intended to assail the American works by a cross-fire. On the morning of the th, large parties of horse and foot were discovered in the rear of the fort, supported by the above-men- tioned battery, which; simultaneously with those in Matamoros, opened upon the fort with a galling fire of round-shot and shells. This fire was answered from the -pounders, and the howitzer battery placed in embrazure on the south-east bastion, for the space of an hour, *hen the firing on both sides ceased. About nine o'clock some Mexican officers, under an escort of cavalry, with large bodies of mounted men and infantry within supporting distance, commenced a reconnoissance at the distance of half a mile, with the view of establishing a new battery. Lieutenant Hanson with a party of dragoons, by permission of Major Brown, with great gallantry sallied out to watch their movements, when they precipitately retreated behind their works. On Wednesday, the th, the cannonade began with the dawn I of day, and round-shot and shells from the lower fort and mortar battery were thrown into the fort, tearing the tents to pieces and killing and wounding many of the artillery horses. Large parties of mounted men and infantry were now seen hovering near; and Major Brown, finding himself surrounded by the enemy, gave to General Taylor the preconcerted signal, by firing at half-past six o'clock the -pounders. The enemy's fire was now redoubled, as if in consequence of this ; and the shot and shells from the several forts and batteries in front and rear, fell in an iron shower throughout the fort. At about ten o'clock, while the brave Major Brown, attended by his adjutant, was performing his usual round, to see that the men were at their posts, he stopped to give some directions respecting a bomb-proof upon which they were engaged, when a descending shell struck him ; and amid the cloud of dust that arose he was seen to fall mortally wounded. His right leg was torn off, leaving the muscles and the bare and jagged bones exposed to the view of his companions, who gathered in sympathy around him. Calm in the endurance of suffering, as he had before been in danger, he reminded them of their duties, as he was borne to the hospital : cc Men, go to your duties, stand by your posts ; I am but one among you." He was carried to a bomb-proof; where, owing to the confined air, the violence of the wound, and the heat of the weather, he had but little chance of recovery. He lingered until the evening of the th ; and while the roar of the artillery; as it became more distinct and nearer, proclaimed the retreat of the Mexicans before his victorious general at Resaca de la Palma, yielded up his life to his country, in whose honourable service he had been so long employed. In his notice of the defence of Fort Brown, General Taylor pays the following handsome tribute to his memory :— cg The field-work opposite Matamoros has sustained itself handsomely, during a cannonade and bombardment of one hundred and sixty hours. But the pleasure is alloyed with profound regret at the loss of its heroic and indomitable commander, Major Brown, who died to-day from the effects of a shell. His loss would be a severe one to the service at any time, but to the army under my orders, it is indeed irreparable." On the fall of Major Brown, the command of the fort devolved on Captain Hawkins, and his bastion on Brevet Major Rains. Soon after this, large parties of infantry and cavalry were seen advancing upon the fort in the rear, but they soon dispersed on receiving a few rounds of canister from Lieutenant Bragg's battery. From ten o'clock till half-past twelve P. M., the shot and shells fell in one continual shower. After this, a dull and sullen fire was kept up till between four and five o'clock, when a white flag was displayed in the rear, and the Mexican bugles sounded a parley. Soon after, two officers approached the fort with a flag, when they were met, at the distance of three hundred yards, by Major Sewall and Lieutenant Britton, who bore the following communication from General Arista to Captain Hawkins, written in Spanish :— " MEXICAN ARKS, DIVISION OH THE NORTH, General-in-Chief. cc You are besieged by forces sufficient to take you ; and there is, moreover, a numerous division encamped near you, which, free from all other cares, will keep off any succours which you may expect to receive. c€ The respect for humanity, acknowledged at the present age by all civilized nations, doubtless imposes upon me the duty of mitigating the disasters of war. "This principle, which Mexicans observe above all other nations, obliges me to summon you, as all your efforts will be useless, to • surrender, in order to avoid, by a capitulation, the entire destruction of all the soldiers under your command. cc You will thus afford me the pleasure of complying with the mild and benevolent wishes above expressed, which distinguish the character of my countrymen, whilst I at the same time fulfil the most imperious of the duties which my country requires for the offences committed against it. ec God and liberty ! Head-Quarters, at the Fanques del Raminero, May , . M. ARISTA." Captain Hawkins, though resolved to defend the fort to the last, thought it proper to submit the message which he had received to his officers. He accordingly assembled the commanders of bastions, with Captain Mansfield, principal engineer, and Lieutenant Bragg. The vote was taken, beginning with the youngest officer, and was unanimous, to defend the fort to the death. The following reply was returned within the allotted hour " HEAD QUARTERS U. S. FORCES. Near Matamoros, May , , P. M. " SIR : Your humane communication has just been received, and, after the consideration due to its importance, I must respectfully decline to surrender my forces to you. ec The exact purport of your despatch I cannot feel confident that I understood, as my interpreter is not skilled in your language ; but if I have understood you correctly, you have my reply above. I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant, E. S. HAWKINS, Commanding U. S. Forces opposite Matamoros. 'Gen. M. ARISTA, Coinmanding Division of the North." On the receipt of this reply followed the most harassing fire of shot and shells that had yet been experienced; but the American troops could not answer it, as their ammunition was nearly expended, and that on hand had to be kept for close quarters, as the storming of the fort was momentarily expected. At the dawn of the th the enemy's batteries opened as usual with great vigour, and parties seemed advancing on the fort, but several rounds of canister and grape fired into their picket-guards, at the houses in the rear, and at the old guard-house, caused them to fall back out of cannon-range. A random fire was kept up during the forenoon with musketry ; but at half-past two commenced a regular bombardment with shot and shells, from howitzers and mortars, which was continued without intermission till after sunset. The Mexicans had advanced the former night, and occupied a traverse left by the garrison to the north of the work near the river, which was only one hundred yards from it, and as high as our breast-work. At this place was a cover from which they fired their escopets into the fort, and which might serve them as a rallying-point, whence to rush upon it in the expected storm. It was determined to level it, at whatever cost. Accordingly, on the night of the th, Captain Miles, with three subalterns, Lieutenants Potter, Van Dorn and Clitz, and one hundred men, under direction of Captain Mansfield the chief engineer, were sent, with spades only, on this dangerous enterprise. The traverse lay longitudinally perpendicular to the face of one of the enemy's strongest batteries, and not over five hundred yards from it : had a discovery been made, a single discharge of grape-might have cut off the whole party. Happily, by eleven o'clock, the traverse was levelled and some clumps of chapitrral adjacent cut away, much to the chagrin and mortification of the enemy, who returned about midnight to resume their firing of the previous night, but found their breast-work level with the ground. At this time a random fire of musketry commenced, accompanied by the, notes of bugles sounding the charge; and the defenders of the fort expected every moment the deadly assault. Arrangements had already been made for it in Matamoros, to take .place this very night by a picked corps of five thousand nlen ; but Arista had ascertained that General Taylor was advancing, and the order was countermanded. The storming of the fort having been abandoned, the firing was now irregular until three o'clock A. M. At this time it became more severe, and was continued until daylight. At sunrise on the th the enemy's batteries commenced their fire, and for several hours poured an incessant storm of shot and shells into the fort. At noon the bombardment was resumed, and an additional mortar, established in the chaparral across the river, opened upon the garrison. Worn down with watching, exhausted by labour, and harassed by a continual fire, the weary soldiers were becoming listless, and indifferent to the shot and shells that fell in dangerous proXimity to their persons, when, about half-past two o'clock P. M. on the th, they were roused from their lethargy by a cannon-shot in the direction of Point Isabel. Another and another followed in quick succession, and then ensued a heavy cannonade like a continued volley of artillery. The countenances of the soldiers brightened, as they sprang to their feet and listened with intense interest to the roar of the distant battle, which was then raging on the plains of Palo Alto. The sounds grew nearer and more distinct, from which they inferred their general was driving the enemy before him ; and, mounting upon the parapets, regardless of the missiles that fell thick around them, they raised. a shout that rose far above the thunder of the enemy's forts, and carried dismay to the hearts of the inhabitants of Matamoros. Soon after this the enemy redoubled his fire, and from mortars established in the north, south and west—four in numberround-shot and shells in a storm of iron hail strewed the earth in every direction. While the sounds of the distant battle were now heard, bodies of infantry and cavalry were seen crossing the river, and hurrying onward to reinforce their companions. About sunset, a Mexican came running to the fort with a flag, and announced to the garrison the pleasing intelligence, that General Taylor had met the foroes of Arista on his march, and after a severe fight, had driven him back towards Matamoros. During the night there was no more firing, and the garrison, though on the alert should an assault be attempted, was enabled to obtain better rest than usual to their weary, exhausted frames. The firing was resumed on the morning of the th, but the garrison was greatly encouraged on finding that the enemy's battery to the east of the fort was withdrawn and removed to Matamoros. The belief that General Taylor had been victorious on the preceding day, was confirmed by seeing troops hurrying in the direction of Arista's head-quarters. During the fire this morning, an act of great daring was performed by Lieutenant Van Dorn and Quartermaster-Sergeant Henry. The halyards of the flag had become unrigged the preceding evening ; they ascended to adjust these, when the enemy turned upon them the fire of all their batteries ; yet, amid the storm of grape, canister, and shells, they dauntlessly stood to their work until they had accomplished it,' and descended amid the acclamations of their companions. About midday the firing ceased for some time, and amid the silence of the pause, the gallant Major Brown breathed his last. It was now alter two o'clock ; no message or tidings had been received from General Taylor, and anxiety was painfully depicted on the faces of many, when the booming of cannon in quick succession, told that their companions were again in deadly conflict with the enemy. Nearer and clearer came the sound, till amid the diapason of artillery was heard the sharp rattle of musketry, and the garrison knew that the brave army coming to their relief, were driving before them the proud legions of Mexico. At length the sound of battle ceased, and the defenders of the fort were now anxious to gain intelligence of a result in which their own safety was so deeply concerned ; when, towards set of sun, the Mexican troops emerged from the chaparral in the utmost confusion, and rushed in full retreat to the river, pursued by May's dragoons and Duncan's artillery. Transported at the sight, the garrison manned the parapets, and, lifting up the voice of exultation, silenced with their cheers the batteries of the enemy, for not another shot was fired afterwards. As the tide of Mexican cavalry and infantry rolled by, discharges of grape from a -pounder and one of the 's of the fort, carried increasing confusion into their masses ; but as it was difficult to distinguish friend from foe, the fire of the garrison was checked, lest the deadly missiles might be directed against the pursuers as well as the fugitives. After a siege of one hundred and sixty hours, in which several thousand shot and shells were received, and every ten feet of its area ploughed up by a bomb, thus ended the defence of Fort Brown. It was undoubtedly one of the most brilliant achieve.. ments of the war. Throughout its continuance, the courage, patience, and perseverance of the American soldiery were severely tested, under the most disadvantageous and harassing circumstances ; and well did they abide the fiery ordeal. Besides its gallant defender Major Brown, Sergeant Weigart of the th infantry was the only one killed ; the wounded were thirteen in number, and were all privates. The case of Sergeant Weigart was a remarkable one. The second bomb thrown by the Mexicans exploded near his company, and carried away a part of his head, killing him instantly. While laid out on a board in the hospital tent preparatory to burial, a shell entered the tent, burst, and blew off his head. After his burial, a bomb entered his grave, and exploding therein, partially exhumed him. CHAPTER 'VIII. Bombardment of Fort Brown heard at Point Isabel—Captain Walker sent with a Communication to Major Brown—May charges the Enemy's Lancers—Return of Captain Walker—March of General Taylor for Fort Brown--Published Order —Enemy discovered—Arista's Order of Battle—Taylor's Order of Battle—Daring Service of Lieutenant Blake—Enemy's Fire opened—Duncan's Battery—Ringgold' a Artillery—Churchhill's -pounders—Charge of Cavalry—Lieutenant Ridgely—Fall of Ringgold—Artillery Battalion—Lieutenant-Colonel ChildeThe Prairie fired—Duncan's Movement—Forces of the two Armies—The Loss on each side—Taylor's Despatch—Ariata's Despatch. THE cannonade that opened upon Fort Brown, on the d of May, was heard by General Taylor at Point Isabel. Anxious to relieve the garrison, he determined to return immediately to Fort Brown, and the troops were under order to march at one, P. M. Subsequently, he deemed it proper first to communicate with the fort ; and Captain Walker was selected for that duty. About two o'clock, on the evening of the d, the captain set out with ten Texan Rangers, accompanied by Captain May, with a command of one hundred dragoons ; and after proceeding a few miles, halted until dark. About nine o'clock they came in sight of the enemy's camp fires ; and, by proceeding cautiously, succeeded in getting between their encampment and the fort. About seven miles from the latter, protected from observation by the edge of the chaparral, Captain May remained with his command ; while Captain Walker, and six of the rangers, advanced to the fort. It was arranged between them, that Captain Walker should return as early as possible, so that they could pass the enemy's lines before daylight. A	/ CA es IL Captain May awaited the return of Captain Walker until near dawn ; when, finding that he and his party were discovered by the enemy's scouts, and believing that some accident had happened to the captain, he returned to Point Isabel. When within twelve miles of the Point, he found his way obstructed by about one hundred and fifty lancers. These he charged, and drove before him towards their camp for two or three miles ; when, fearing an ambuscade, he wheeled about and proceeded on to Point Isabel, which he reached at nine o'clock. It was near three o'clock in the morning of the th, before Captain Walker succeeded in reaching the fort, and delivering his message to the commander. After some time, he received Major Brown's communications for General Taylor, and being furnished with fresh horses, hastened to join Captain May. On arriving at the spot where he had left the captain and his party, he found them gone—and the enemy prepared to cut of his return. He then rode back to Fort Brown, where he remained till night, and then set out again for Point Isabel. The enemy were everywhere in his pathway, but he managed to evade them, and bore to General Taylor the cheering intelligence that the fort had nobly sustained itself; and was able, for the present, to repel any force that could be brought against it. After the receipt of this news, General Taylor resolved to remain a while longer at Point Isabel, that he might place it in a better state of defence, and prepare for his return to Fort Brown. During the week which he spent at Point Isabel, General Taylor had completed the defences of that post, and made arrangements for the transportation of the supplies and munitions of war intended for Fort Brown. Summoned thither by the booming of the deep-mouthed cannon that assailed the fort, he left Point Isabel on the evening of the th of May, and with the main body of his army, and a train of three hundred wagons, his light artillery, and two -pounders on siege-carriages, drawn by ten yoke of oxen, moved towards the Rio Grande. In expectation of the enemy's disputing his return, and confident of his ability to repel their efforts, General Taylor issued the following order HPAD-QUART, ARMY OP OCCUPATION, May , . ORDER No. . "The army will march to-day at three o'clock, in the direction of Matamoros. It is known the enemy has recently occupied the route in force. If still in possession, the general will give him battle. The commanding-general has every confidence in his officers and men. If his orders and instructions are carried out, he has no doubt of the result, let the enemy meet him in what numbers they may. He wishes to enjoin upon the battalions of infantry, that their main dependence must be in the bayonet. W. W. S. BLISS, Assistant Adjutant-General." The weather was warm, and their march slow and toilsome, encumbered as it was with the train and the heavy artillery intended for Fort Brown ; so that; after making seven miles of their way, they halted and bivouacked on their arms for the night. Early on the following morning it was reported by the scouts under Captain Walker, that the enemy had deserted their camp, from which it was inferred, that the enemy did not contemplate giving battle. The march was resumed about sunrise, and continued till noon. At this time, the advance of cavalry which had reached the water-bole of Palo Alto, brought intelligence to the general that the Mexicans were in front ; and it was soon discovered that they occupied the road in great force. On reaching the water, the army was halted, with the view of resting and refreshing the men, and enabling the general to make a proper and deliberate disposition of his forces. The enemy in battle-array was now plainly visible at a distance of three-quarters of a mile, his banners gaily floating in the breeze, and his tall lances flashing in the sunlight. Compact lines of infantry extended from a thicket of chaparral on their right, about a mile over an open prairie of three miles in extent ; while a heavy force of cavalry on their left, stretched across the road and rested upon a salt-marsh of difficult passage. At intervals along their line, batteries were planted to sweep the advancing column of the Americans. Though he saw before him an army greatly superior in numbers, inured to arms in many a fight, and enjoying the advantages of a well-selected position, General Taylor, firm in his resolution to advance, and confident of the bravery of his troops, calmly disposed his forces in order of battle. The line of battle was formed in two wings. The right wing was commanded by the veteran Colonel David E. Twiggs, and was composed of the following troops, commencing on the extreme right :-th infantry, Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh ; Ringgold's light artillery ; d infantry, Captain L. M. Morris ; two -pounders, under Lieutenant Churchhill, d artillery ; th infantry, Major G. W. Allen ; and two squadrons of dragoons, under Captains Ker and May. The left wing, under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Belknap, consisted of a battalion of artillery, serving as infantry, under Lieutenant-Colonel Childs; Captain Duncan's light artillery ; and the th infantry, under Captain Montgomery. For security the wagon train was parked near the water, under the directions of Captains Crossman and Myers of the Quartermaster's department, and protected by the squadron of dragoons under Captain Ker. Having refreshed themselves and filled their canteens, the troops were put in motion and ordered to advance by heads of cola us. After the line of battle had been formed, General et \-i •	..... i- t- ,„....---	{.-	.z , .,_ _, e.	. Vz	% it - _ I --i- \l" is ,...,,.	.i, Id ,	,-	it.--lts •P	%CI:- a . • - • -t...; -....,, V ^c,Ne -k; *.laVo, - T r r Nvx	„i, , :	,.... „,,,,	oo	; .. -,- .-....-. -÷ . .%Vt" \I'	a‘ 	.,, ..,	t _, -N.. '' 	*,,	- . . , • ...,.." . ., •	-?. 	%%,*.? ,.‘ %*\.,i. ,	......	.....„ ,,,, ,,,, ... ,°.•• -Anneira mesa ± ± ± thwairr Aeigjviir uado aitVioar - ire .rutdArm act ii.n); •	,trultr	of	po off rizgla	V.V./Jr.:. • rIA WWI /	ge-,sar	 -sintaft.	 .. Taylor rode along the line and encouraged the men, who seemed eager for the contest. As yet he did not know whether the enemy had artillery or not; and anxious to learn that particular, he detached Captain May with his dragoons, to reconnoitre his lines, and, if possible, draw the fire of his artillery ; but it was completely masked by the long prairie-grass and the men in front of the pieces, and the captain returned again, after an ineffectual effort Lieutenant Blake now volunteered a daring service. He proposed to go forward alone, and make a reconnoissance of the enemy's position aqd forces. With great gallantry he dashed forwards to within eighty yards of the enemy's line, while both armies looked on with admiration ; and dismounting, took his glass, and deliberately surveyed the whole of their forces. After this, he mounted his horse and galloped down the line to the other end, and, after a second examination with his glass, returned and reported to the general the presence and position of at least two batteries of artillery in the enemy's line. Scarcely had he finished his report to General Taylor, when the enemy's battery on the right, with ball and grape, opened upon the American forces, and the work of destruction began. As soon as the cannonade commenced, General Taylor halted his columns, and ordered them to deploy into line, which was performed with steadiness and precision. The light artillery on the wings and the -pounders in the centre, were advanced about one hundred yards, and the order passed to answer the enemy's fire. Duncan's battery on the left got into position a little in advance of the others, and first returned the challenge of the enemy. Ringgold 's artillery was soon engaged in the conflict ; and the terrible -pounders from the centre, under the direction of the general, were brought to bear upon the enemy's left. The battle now raged with fury from right to left, and the cannon on both sides dealt destruction. The fire of the enemy was incessant, but inaccurate ; Ringgold's artillery on the contrary-mowed down whole platoons of cavalry on the Mexican left ; the discharges of the -pounders in the same direction were murderous, while the Mexican right suffered terribly from the artillery of Duncan, which was served with deadly effect. Captain May, who had been ordered to support this battery, while contemplating a charge, received a severe fire from the Mexican artillery, by which he lost four horses killed and two wounded. At this time the Mexican cavalry, which, unable to withstand the rapid discharges and precision of Ringgold's artillery, and the fire of the heavy pieces under Churchhill, had faltered and given way, advanced through the chaparral with two pieces of artillery, for the purpose of attacking the right flank of the Americans, or of making a demonstration upon the train which had been parked in the rear. To check this flank movement, troops were promptly detached. The th infantry was advanced to meet the enemy in that quarter, supported by a section of Major Ringgold's battery under Lieutenant Randolph Ridgely, Captain Walker's company of volunteers, and, shortly after, the d infantry. Thrown into cavalry square, the th sustained with great bravery the charge of the lancers under General Torrejon, and galled them with a severe fire, while Lieutenant Ridgely served his pieces with rapidity, and poured shot and shells upon their ranks with decisive effect. The lieutenant had his horse shot under him, at which time the horses at one of his caissons, affrighted, sprang madly forward in range of the gun. Regardless of danger, the lieutenant threw himself between the contending fires, and seizing the leader by the head, brought the horses to their places, and saved both them and the ammunition of his battery. Though severely wasted, a portion of the enemy's cavalry on the flank continued to press on, until they perceived the d infantry advancing in column by division to receive them, when they turned and retired with precipitation, lessened by the iron hail that pursued them. In the mean time Churchhill's -pounders and the artillery under Ringgold, supported by the th infantry from the left, continued to assail the enemy with a steady fire, and with murderous effect. To check this fire, the enemy .poured from his batteries a storm of grape and canister, which killed and wounded many of the th, and among them Captain Page, who was shockingly disfigured by a shot which tore away his lower jaw. Soon after, the gallant Ringgold, while directing the fire of his pieces, was mortally wounded by a -pound shot, which at the same time mangled and dashed to the earth the charger on which he was mounted.. Colonel Payne, inspector-general of the army and one of General Taylor's aids, chanced to be near him at the time. By permission, he bad just directed with effect one of the guns, and, summoned by the call of one of the men, ran with others to the wounded major, to afford such aid as was in their power ; but with the true gallantry of a soldier, more concerned for the cause of his country than his own life, he wished to decline their services, and said : gi Don't stay with me; you have work to do, Go ahead!" After Major Ringgold was carried to the rear, Lieutenant Shover assumed the command of his pieces, and continued to serve them with precision and good effect until the close of the action. While this flank movement was attempted by the enemy, the artillery battalion, under Lieutenant-Colonel Childs, had been brought up, for the purpose of supporting the batteries of Church-hill and Ringgold. As the enemy's cavalry came dashing on, a deadly fire from the -pounders gave them a severe check, while the artillery battalion, thrown into cavalry-square, were prepared to receive them. Again pressing on, the enemy opened a fire of small arms upon the square, by which Lieutenant Luther, of the d artillery, and others were wounded ; but a volley from the front of the square, delivered with good effect, stopped their advance, and closed the action upon the American right. Evening was now setting in ; and the enemy, foiled in all his attempts against the American line, fell back from his position, and retired through the chaparral out of sight. While these things took place, Captain May had been ordered to drive in the cavalry of the enemy on the Mexican left, but while advancing for that purpose, received a heavy fire from their artillery, which disabled a considerable portion of his command. Having gained a position with the view of charging, he was restrained by the consideration of the great disparity of forces, which were as one to ten, and returned to his former position. During the engagement, the prairie-grass on the left, parched by the continued blaze of the cannon, had been fired by the discharge of Duncan's battery ; and dense wreaths of smoke rolling up, entirely enveloped the two armies from each other, and hung like the pall of death over the battle-field. In consequence of this, the fight was suspended ; but during its pause, while Duncan was advancing to gain a position somewhat to the right of the one which he had occupied, the Mexicans were marching across the prairie with the view of attacking the train ; which, during the engagement, in consequence of the advance of our line, had also been advanced and parked in the rear. The temporary clearing away of the smoke, which the sea-breeze lifted up like a curtain, and let fall again, disclosed to each army the manoeuvre of the other. Penetrating the enemy's intention, Colonel Belknap ordered Duncan to alter his direction, and wheel his horses to the left, which was promptly obeyed. Rushing in the direction of the enemy's advancing troops, Duncan halted within musket-range of the lancers ; and, as the clearing of the air revealed his position to the astonished enemy, poured a volley of shot and shells upon the lancers from one section, kM*MEI;M;FMNrICOMPMaZMOMMVM,,DMM-MeltD while he directed the fire of another against some regiments of infantry, that, supported by horse, were emerging from the cha- parral. Bravely did the enemy sustain the fire for a time. They re-formed the broken ranks, and attempted to press on, but the shells and shrapnell shot soon carried confusion into their ranks ; their own fire slackened, while the iron storm that assailed them was resistless. Their infantry fell back, and retired within the chaparral, in the rear of the position it had occupied ; in which movement it was soon followed by the cavalry, while night coming on put an end to the contest. During these movements, Ker's dragoons and the th infantry stood firm as veterans, ready to support the batteries ; but were not called into action. The th was kept in column, instead of being deployed into line, and sustained a galling fire under circumstances demanding the coolest endurance. The fire from both armies ceased with the setting sun, whose last rays gave a light tinge of gold to the heavy clouds of smoke that draped the battle-field, like the transient fame that gilds the gloom of war. Many an eye that brightened with his morning radiance was dim, and would now behold his beams no more for ever. The regular force of the Mexicans in this battle was six thousand men, with twelve pieces of artillery, besides bodies of irregu- lar troops. The Americans had in all but twenty-two hundred and eighjy-eight men ; yet, with this inferior force, the American general defeated a veteran army, with all the advantages of a select position. It was the first open action between the armies of the belligerents ; and its complete success was a happy omen of the victories that were to follow. The Mexicans lost two hundred killed, and four hundred wounded ; the Americans lost nine killed, forty-four wounded, and two missing. Artillery was the main arm employed, and the rapidity and precision with which the American guns were it	•	• A-- •	.L Another cause of the disparity was, that the Mexicans directed their fire with the view of silencing the batteries ; while the Americans directed their shot against the masses of men. But the chief cause was the difference in the abilities of the two commanders, and the bravery of their subordinate officers. Their men, with veteran firmness, withstood the volleys of our artillery, and, had they been led by superiors of dauntless bravery, though they might not have been victorious, would have rendered the fortunes of the day far different. Finding the great superiority of our artillery, Arista should have charged, with recklessness of the partial sacrifice, and by the very force of his numbers have overpowered his enemy. That General Taylor expected him to do this, is evident from his order : cc He wishes to enjoin upon the battalions of infantry, that their chief dependence must be in the bayonet" By the light of the burning prairie, and the soft rays of the moon, the Americans collected their wounded and buried the dead ; and after the excitement was over, sank to repose on the bare earth, in expectation of resuming the battle on the morrow. The place of the battle, Palo Alto (tall timber), is so called on account of the timber which skirted the further end of the prairie, and which, though of stunted growth, is tall in comparison with the chaparral of that region. When first passing over this ground, General Taylor had predicted, that the enemy would select it for their place to give battle. At the dawn of day, on the th, the enemy were seen retiring along the chaparral towards the road, as if to dispute the further progress of our army. Determined to advance and attack the enemy, General Taylor resolved to park the train, and mount some of the -pounders, which it carried for its defence. The wounded were left behind, to be sent to Point Isabel. The gallant Major Ringgold, who, while standing up in his stirrups watching the effect of his fire, had received a shot that passed MAJOR SAMUEL RINGGOLD. through both legs, carrying away the flesh and infeguments, lingered until the th ; when, with great composure, he closed a life which had been faithfully devoted to his country. About sunrise General Taylor formed his troops in line of battle, and marched forward to meet the enemy ; but the dragoons and Captain Walker's men, who were in advance, reported the chaparral free, and the enemy rapidly retiring along the road, upon which the general halted his army. The commanding-general now rode back to the train, for the purpose of despatching his first bulletin, which had been prepared the preceding night. While here, an unfortunate occurrence took place. Lieutenant Blake, of the Topographical Engineers, whom we have mentioned as making the bold reconnoissance of the enemy's line, accidentally shot himself. On entering the tent in which General Taylor was sitting, he threw down his holsters, when the cap of one of his pistols exploded, discharging the contents into his body. The despatch of General Taylor was brief and unpretending. In a subsequent communication he dwelt upon the details of the fight. " HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY OP OCCUPATION, Camp at Palo Alto, Texas, May , . " SIR : I have the honour to report that I was met near this place yesterday, on my march from Point Isabel, by the Mexican forces, and after an action of about five hours, dislodged them from their position and encamped upon the field. Our artillery, consisting of two -pounders and two light batteries, was the arm chiefly engaged, and to the excellent manner in which it was manoeuvred and served is our success mainly due. ,c The strength of the enemy is believed to have been about men, with seven pieces of artillery, and cavalry. His loss is probably at least one hundred killed. Our strength did not exceed, all told, twenty-three hundred, while our loss was comparatively trifling—four men killed, three officers and thirty-seven men wounded, several of the latter mortally. I regret to say that Major Ringgold, d artillery, and Captain Page, th infantry, are severely wounded. Lieutenant Luther, d artillery, slightly so. The enemy has fallen back, and it is believed, has repassed the river. I have advanced parties now thrown forward in his direction, and shall move the main body immediately. cc In the haste of this report, I can only say that the officers and men behaved in the most admirable manner throughout the action. I shall have the pleasure of making a more detailed report when those of the different commanders shall be received. ct I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. A., commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." In striking contrast with this plain statement is the account of the vanquished Arista, addressed to the Mexican Minister of War and Marine, and dated, gc In sight of the enemy, May ." Though in sight of the enemy, the Mexican commander was at the time in retreat. This omission, however, is of little moment, when we consider the many misstatements of his despatch. • gc Constant in my purpose of preventing General Taylor from uniting the forces which he brought from the Fronton of Santa Isabel, with those which he left opposite Matamoros, I moved this day from the Fanques del Raminero, whence I despatched my last extraordinary courier, and took the direction of Palo Alto, as soon as my spies informed me that the enemy had left Fronton, with the determination of introducing into his fort wagons loaded with provisions and heavy artillery. cc I arrived opposite Palo Alto about one o'clock, and observed that the enemy was entering that position. cg With all my forces, I established the line of battle in a great plain, my right resting upon an elevation, and my left on a slough of difficult passage. cg Scarcely was the first cannon fired, when there arrived General D. Pedro de Ampudia, second in command, whom I had ordered to join me after having covered the points which might serve to besiege the enemy in the forts opposite Matamoros. gc The forces under my orders amounted to three thousand men, and twelve pieces of artillery ; those of the invaders were three thousand, rather less than more, and were superior in artillery, since they had twenty pieces of the calibre of sixteen and eighteen pounds. gc The battle commenced so ardently, that the fire of cannon did not cease a single moment. In the course of it, the enemy wished to follow the road to Matamoros, to raise the siege of his troops ; with which object he fired the grass, and formed in front of his line of battle a smoke so thick, that he succeeded in covering himself from our view, but by means of manoeuvres this was twice embarrassed. it General Taylor maintained his attack rather defensively than offensively, employing his best arm, which is artillery, protected by half of the infantry, and all of his cavalry, keeping the remainder fortified in the ravine, about two thousand yards from the field of battle. tc I was anxious for the charge, because the fire of cannon did much damage in our ranks ; and I instructed General D. Anastasio Torrejon to execute it with the greater part of the cavalry, by our left flank, with some columns of infantry, and the remainder of the cavalry. ic I was waiting the moment when that general should execute the charge, and the effect of it should begin to be seen, in order to give the impulse on the right; but he was checked by a fire of the enemy, which defended a slough that embarrassed the attack. cg Some battalions, becoming impatient by the loss which they suffered, fell into disorder, demanding to advance Or fall back. I immediately caused them to charge with a column of cavalry, under the command of Colonel D. Cayetano Montero ; the result of this operation being that the dispersed corps repaired their fault as far as possible, marching towards the enemy, who, in consequence of his distance, was enabled to fall back upon his reserve ; and night coming on, the battle was concluded, the field remaining for our arms. cc Every suitable measure was then adopted, and the division took up a more concentrated curve in the same scene of action. "The combat was long and bloody, which may be estimated from the calculations made by the commandant-general of artillery, General D. Thomas Requena, who assures me that the enemy threw about three thousand cannon-shots from two in the afternoon, when the battle commenced, until seven at night, when it terminated, — six hundred and fifty being fired on our side. "The national arms shone forth, since they did not yield a hand's-breadth of ground, notwithstanding the superiority in artillery of the enemy, who suffered much damage. (c Our troops have to lament the loss of two hundred and fifty-two men dispersed, wounded, and killed,— the last worthy of national recollection and gratitude for the intrepidity with which they died fighting for the most sacred of causes. cc Will your Excellency please with his note to report to his Excellency the President, representing to him that I will take care to give a circumstantial account of this deed of arms ; and recommending to him the good conduct of all the generals, chiefs, officers and soldiers under my orders, for sustaining so bloody a combat, which does honour to our arms, and exhibits their discipline." CHAPTER IX. A Council-of-War—Taylor's March resumed—Mexicans killed and woundedAdvance-Guard under Captain McCall—Skirmish with the Enemy—His Positio at Resaca de la Palma—Commencement of the Battle—Ridgely's Artillery-The th Infantry—The th Infantry—Service of the Cannon-th Infant: brought up—May ordered to take the Enemy's Battery—May's brilliant Chars —Death of Lieutenant Inge—Capture of General Vega—Bravery of Lieutcnan Colonel Belknap—Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh wounded—Capture of Arista' Camp—Lieutenant Cochrane killed—The Tampico Battalion—Capture of ii Flag—Rout of the Enemy—General Taylor's Report—Burial of the Dead-Humanity of General Taylor—Exchange of Prisoners—Congratulatory Orders-Manifesto of the Mexican Commander. AT daybreak on the th, the rear of the enemy was see: retiring through the chaparral towards Fort Brown, and the gene ral belief was, that he was disposed to try his fortunes again, an would further dispute the advance of the American army. After their morning meal, General Taylor called a comic] composed of the heads of the commands, in which some wer for marching forward ; others preferred intrenching where the were, until reinforced by the volunteers that were expected ; whil others, again, were in favour of returning to Point Isabel. Th commanding-general reconciled all differences by declaring, the he would be in Fort Brown before night, if he lived. Thereupo the council closed, and orders were given to form in line, an march forward. In passing over the battle-ground of the form( day, the terrible effects of our artillery were visible in the heaped up masses of dead bodies disfigured with ghastly wounds an distained with blood, —in the dead horses scattered along th route of the retreating cavalry,—and in the fragments of arm military accoutrements, and clothing strewed over the field in admirable confusion. On reaching the edge of the chaparral, General Taylor halted the troops at a pond, and ordered forward into the chaparral an advanced corps, to feel the enemy, and ascertain his position. This consisted of the light companies of the First Brigade, under Captain C. F. Smith, d artillery, and a select detachment of light troops ; the whole under command of Captain A. G. McCall, th infantry, and numbering two hundred and twenty men. Captain Smith's party moved along upon the right of the road, the remainder of the command upon the left. In expectation of an engagement, General Taylor parked his supply-train, and fortified its position by intrenchments, and by a battery consisting of the two -pounders and two 's. The artillery battalion, under Lieutenant-Colonel Childs (excepting the flank companies), was stationed as a guard to the train, some distance in advance of it. While scouring the chaparral in search of the enemy, the American advance upon the right discovered some small parties of infantry, and one of cavalry, and immediately fired upon them. Shortly after this the head of the command, on reaching the open ground bordering upon the Resaca de la Palma, came within range of a masked battery, and received three rounds of canister, which killed one man, and wounded three others. Upon this the men broke and took to the chaparral. Shortly after, however, they rallied, and uniting with the detachment under Captain Smith, prepared to move upon the flank of the enemy and attack him. While this was going on upon the right of the road, Lieutenant Dobbins, with a small party, encountered upon the left a large body of Mexicans. The lieutenant raised his rifle and killed the Mexican leader; almost at the same instant his soldiers fired, killing and wounding a number of the enemy, while the remainder • I „r.!^: kr,,:. . .	.....,,!‘” ..., 	A • , 	' itt.::: Jj ‘.) •	D:%j ors ,ords • .° BATTLE of CA in LA PALMA J`htav . _ fr. age tta `Vo,attnt Mtai clIt ONIfii* •••••^.^.. -mlf^•^^• • uk ito° Aelo • -pi ••• * % •••• /Mi . fell back. Soon after, a masked battery opened upon the party, and Lieutenant Dobbins was struck down by a grape-shot. He recovered himself soon after, and ordered his men to the dense chaparral, which they reached in time to escape a troop of Mexican cavalry that came dashing up in pursuit. He now ordered his men to press upon the rear of the cavalry, who, fearing they had fallen into an ambuscade, hastily retreated. After this the lieutenant, with his men, returned to the main body of the advance-guard ; when Captain McCall despatched three dragoons to inform General Taylor that the enemy occupied the ravine in force, with the evident design of obstructing his march. The position selected by the enemy was one of great natural strength. Midway between Palo Alto and Fort Brown, and in the centre of the foreit of chaparral which extends for about seven miles between these points, the road crosses a ravine which is semicircular in shape, with the opening between its extremities lying towards Point Isabel. The ravine is about sixty yards broad, and is nearly breast-high. At different places along its extent are ponds, oval or of serpentine shape, which are so increased during the rainy season, as to unite and form a continuous stream that flows off towards the Rio Grande, and is hence called the Resaca de la Palma, or Dry River of Palma. The bed of this river, now dry, with the exception of ponds at intervals, was occupied by the enemy in double lines ; one posted under the front bank, the other intrenched behind the chaparral that lined the further bank. Batteries were planted upon the right and left of the road in the centre of each line, and one upon the enemy's right, so that the fire of the whole might converge in a terrible focus upon the American column, as it advanced between the horns of the crescent which the ravine formed across the road. With these advantages of position, Arista, with seven thousand men, 'many of them veteran troops, awaited the approach of the American army. About three o'clock in the afternoon, General Taylor received the message from Captain McCall, and instantly put his army in motion, which came up with the advance-guard about four o'clock. Lieutenant Ridgely, with his battery, was immediately thrown forward on the road. Captain Smith, with his party, was now directed to take the right of the road, while Captain McCall took the left, with orders to feel the enemy and bring on the action, after which they were to assume a position upon the enemy's flanks, and harass him. Having advanced about three hundred yards to front and flank, the advance encountered the right of the enemy's infantry, and with great gallantry brought on the action, pouring an incessant and destructive fire upon the enemy. Ridgely's battery, in the mean time, had advanced upon the road ; while the th infantry and one wing of the th, thrown into the chaparral on the left, and the d infantry and the other wing of the th upon the right, moved simultaneously upon the enemy. These corps were deployed as skirmishers, and intended to cover the battery and engage the Mexican infantry. Moving cautiously along, Ridgely discovered the enemy in the road, about four hundred yards in advance, and almost instantaneously their artillery opened upon him. Ridgely ordered forward his battery at full speed, about a hundred yards, and returned the fire with precision and effect. The cannonade was kept up for some time on both sides with great spirit, after which, as the fire of the enemy slackened, Ridgely limbered up and advanced upon him, until at length he was within a hundred or a hundred and fifty yards of the enemy's batteries, and at this fearful proximity, galled him with rapid and terrible discharges of grape and canister. Simultaneous with the opening roar of the artillery was heard the sharp rattle of musketry. On the left the th infantry, led by the gallant Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh, rushed on towards the RATTLE OF RESACA DE LA A MA enemy at full speed, made its way through the almost impenetrable chaparral, engaged the enemy, and for some time sustained the fire of the Mexican army, without any infantry to support it, except the advance party, under Captain McCall. The th infantry, while pressing on towards the enemy through the chaparral, became divided. A part united with the th, while the remaining portion, under Captain Buchanan, with Lieutenants Hays and Woods, crossed the pond in the ravine, which was waist-deep, and on surmounting the crest of the hill, charged and took one of the enemy's pieces, though defended by a hundred and fifty infantry ; and immediately after drove the enemy from a breastwork behind which he was intrenched. Before the cannoneers fled, they had set fire to the priming-tube, and the match was about to ignite the powder ; Lieutenant Woods sprang forward in time to prevent it, and with his sword knocked off the priming. Soon after a body of cavalry came dashing up, and made an effort to recapture the artillery ; but a part of the d infantry, under Captain Barbour, had arrived to the support of the th. They formed in the face of the enemy, and advanced with the utmost determination, when rapid discharges from the united force drove back the enemy in confusion. The action now became general, and the battle raged with fury. In various parts of the field was heard the roll of musketry, where the infantry, divided into small parties by the intervening chaparral, was contending with the enemy. At times the conflict became nearer, and bayonets were crossed in the deadly encounter. The artillerists, under Ridgely, meanwhile, were bared like reapers to their toil, and the corses of the enemy, like ripened grain, strewed the field of death beneath their incessant and terrible service at the pieces. Their intrepid commander, cool and determined, not only gave direction to the discharges of the guns, but with his ready glass sought afterwards the evidences of the effect with which each charge was sped. The roar of the enemy's cannon, in the mean time, was almost continuous ; and had it not been that the fire was directed too high, it would have swept Ridgely's batteries, and annihilated his command. While the battle thus raged, Lieutenant-Colonel Belknap, who commanded the First Brigade, ordered up the th infantry, and Duncan's artillery, which had been posted as a reserve. On arriving at the scene of action, the th charged the enemy on the right of the road, and after a vigorous resistance drove him from his position ; but Duncan's battery, on arriving at the edge of the ravine, could not open fire on the enemy without galling his friends at the same time. He was obliged, therefore, to let it remain inactive until near the close of the action. The battle had now continued for some time without any decided advantage on our part, and General Taylor perceived that the enemy could not be driven from his position until his artillery was silenced. He therefore ordered Captain May, who was stationed in the rear, to report himself for duty. He soon appeared, with his command, and was directed to charge and take the enemy's batteries, at whatever sacrifice. After exhorting his men to remember their regiment, the captain pointed towards ' the batteries and bade them follow. Striking spurs into his horse, he dashed forward, followed by his command in columns of fours. On arriving at the place occupied by Ridgely and his brave cannoneers, May halted to learn the position of the enemy's batteries. Knowing the danger attending a charge upon their pieces when loaded, Ridgely desired him to wait until he drew the fire of their batteries. He suddenly applied the match, and, ere the reverberation of his pieces had died away, the enemy replied, and their shot swept like hail through his batteries. Instantly the squadron of dragoons sprang forward, May in the advance, with his long hair streaming behind like the rays of a comet. The earth shook beneath the iron hoofs of their steeds, and the rays of the tropic sun flashed back in flame from their LIELIT COL. CHARLES A MAY. burnished sabres, as they swept along, cheered by a shout of exultation from the artillerists and infantry. Still foremost, May reached at length the batteries in the road, and upon the right of it ; and, as his steed rose upon the enemy's breastworks, he turned to wave on his men to the charge. Closely pressing upon him, was Lieutenant Inge, who answered to the challenge with a shout, and turned in like manner to encourage his platoon, when a terrible discharge of grape and canister from the upper battery swept down upon them, and dashed to the earth, in mangled and bloody masses, eighteen horses and seven men ; among them the gallant Inge and his charger. May's steed at a bound cleared the batteries, followed by Lieutenant Stevens, and the survivors of the st and d platoons. Their impetus carried them through and beyond the batteries, when charging back, they drove the enemy from the guns and silenced their fire. Captain Graham, and Lieutentants Winship and Pleasanton, with the d and th platoons, in the mean time swept to the left of the road, and at the point of the sword carried the battery situated there. Perceiving the small force by which they were assailed, the Mexicans recovered from their panic, and rushing back to the batteries, prepared to fire them. Gathering around him a few followers, May charged upon them with irresistible force, while the terror-stricken enemy shrunk back from the blows of his sword, which descended with a flash and force like that of lightning. An intrepid officer, however, kept his place, and endeavoured to rally his men. With his own hands he seized a match and was about to apply it, when he was ordered by Captain May to surrender. Finding himself without support, he acknowledged himself a prisoner, and handed his sword to his gallant captor. It was General Vega, a brave and accomplished officer. He was placed in charge of Lieutenant Stevens, and conducted in safety to the rear, to Colonel Twiggs, though exposed to a shower of musketry. The fire of the enemy's batteries was silenced, but a terrible struggle commenced for their possession. The th infantry, under the brave Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh, though separated into masses by the chaparral, rushed on through a sweeping fire of musketry, and at length crossed bayonets with the enemy over the cannon-muzzles. The th infantry, having learned that May had carried the main battery, but could not maintain it for want of support, was formed in the road, and led on in person by Colonel Belknap. While moving forward they were joined by a part of the th regiment, under Captain Martin Scott. Under the heavy fire of the enemy they faltered for a moment, when the gallant Belknap sprang forward, and smiting down a Mexican ensign, seized his standard, and with it waved on the troops to the charge. A shot soon carried away the flag, but with the staff he continued to cheer his men, until thrown from his horse over a pile of dead and wounded artillerists. Supposing him slain, the regiment fought with desperation to avenge his death, and, together with the th, engaged in a terrible conflict, hand to hand, with the Tampico battalion, composed of veterans victorious in twenty fields. Some time after, the regiment was gratefully surprised at seeing Colonel Belknap appear again at the head of his column. The th, under the immediate command of Captain Montgomery, and the th, under Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh, had charged up the ravine, under a sheeted fire from right and front of the enemy, and after a vigorous resistance forced him back through the dense chaparral. Lodged in different clumps of these impenetrable thickets, the enemy continued the fight, and poured a destructive fire upon the Americans, which caused the action to be varied by numberless skirmishes, in one of which Lieutenant Chadbourne, who had distinguished himself by his bravery, was mortally wounded at the head of his command. While Colonel McIntosh was forcing his way through a dense thicket of chaparral, lined with infantry and cavalry, his horse was struck with a shot and fell dead, and the colonel was precipitated through the chaparral into the midst of the enemy. Mounting to his feet, he encountered them sword in hand, and warded off, for the instant, both bayonets and lance-points; but he was soon overpowered by numbers, and disabled by wounds. A bayonet entered his mouth and came out at his ear; a second, aimed at his heart, pierced through his arm and terribly shattered the bone ; while by a third, which passed through his hip, he was borne down, and pinned to the earth. Upon his fall the command of his regiment devolved upon Major Staniford, who with great energy and spirit followed up the advantages already obtained, and drove the enemy before him. The th regiment, after carrying the battery on the right, as before described, continued to press on, increased by squads of men from the different regiments, and at length emerged from the chaparral into the camp of General Arista, of which they immediately took possession. Here was found his splendid marquee, his private carriage, his trunks, private property, and his correspondence, among which was recognised in his own handwriting the original of the disgraceful proclamation which he had caused to be distributed among the American troops to encourage desertion. In addition to the above, they took five hundred mules, with their pack-saddles, stands of small-arms, ammunition, ammunition-boxes, and military equipage of every variety. Soon after the capture of the Mexican camp, an officer rode up, as if for the purpose of reconnoitring, and received from the captors a volley of musketry, but escaped unhurt. He returned again soon after, and was again fired on and escaped. After receiving a third fire, he came dashing back, followed by a company of lancers, who prepared to charge with headlong impetuosity. The regiment, however, steadily delivered its fire, emptying a few of the Mexican saddles, and then fell back within the chaparral. Lieutenant Cochrane, who kept his ground fearlessly, defended himself with his sword, but was borne down by the charge, and fell dead, having received seven lance-points in his breast. This was the last success of the enemy. The intrenchments, artillery, and camp of the Mexicans, were now in possession of the Americans ; yet the enemy for a time bore up against his losses with fortitude, and disputed the advance of his victorious foe by an obstinate resistance. But American valour and discipline at length were triumphant. The Tampico battalion, that, with the pride of veterans victorious in many a bloody fight, had struggled to roll back the tide of battle, was almost annihilated. Its proud tricolour, that had been rent in the iron storm of our artillery on the plains of Palo Alto, was the last Mexican flag that waved upon the field ; and its stand-bearer, indignantly spurning its surrender, tore it from the flagstaff, and, concealing it about his person, attempted to escape in the general rout that had now taken place ; but he was ridden down by our dragoons, and captured with his precious burden. The flag of the cc Batallon Guarda Costa de Tampico" now hangs among the trophies of the American Capitol. Just before the enemy's last struggle, the two batteries, which could not operate on account of the close contest that had been raging, were ordered across the ravine. When the rout became general, Duncan's battery, and fresh infantry, brought up for the pursuit, thundered in the rear of the panic-stricken enemy as they fled, increasing their confusion, and thinning their ranks with the iron hail poured upon their columns in full retreat. The overthrow and rout of the enemy were complete. In the panic of uncontrollable fear, horsemen rode down the infantry before them, and all, in.haste to escape from the Americans in pursuit, rushed tumultuously down to the river-side, and found, amid its boiling waves, the death they were striving to avoid from behind. At the crossings of the Rio Grande, infantry and cavalry sprang into the flats, till they sank beneath the weight of the multitude upon them. To stop this headlong rush to destruction, Father Leary, a venerable priest, in his sacred robes, with crucifix in hand, stood before them and exhorted them to patience. He succeeded for a moment in his efforts, but a troop of horse came spurring down the bank, and in an instant priest and soldiers were struggling with the waters, and perished in the stream. Many of these bodies were thrown ashore afterwards, and hung suspended among the branches of the trees by the river-side, as the Rio Grande fell. That of the priest mentioned above was found near the fort, his canonicals still upon him, and the emblem of salvation grasped tightly in his hand. During the night, Matamoros was a scene of confusion and consternation. The inhabitants had been assured of certain victory, and preparations had been made for a festival, in honour of the occasion. Ball-moms were decorated and hung with garlands, and music and beauty waited to welcome back the conquerors. But when the sad reverse was learned, — when the terror-stricken troops entered the city, and the groans and shrieks of the wounded were heard, as they were borne in sacks through the streets, the women rushed to the rooms, tore down and stamped upon the festal wreaths and decorations, and testified their sorrow by cries of passionate despair. The soldiery, lawless and reckless, roamed about the streets committing disorders of every kind, while the inhabitants shut themselves up in their homes in fearful apprehension, or, gathering up their goods, fled to the country, or were engaged in lamenting friends that were dead, or tending upon those that were wounded. Ker's squadron of dragoons, the artillery battalion, under Colonel Childs, and the d infantry, pursued the fleeing enemy to the Rio Grande, and bivouacked on its banks. May's squadron having followed also to the river, returned again to the battleground, and rested with the main army. In the evening after the battle, the following brief despatch was prepared by the commanding-general. It was followed by a more detailed report on the th. " HEAD-QUARTERS, ARKS' OP OCCUPATION, Camp at Renee de la Palma, miles from Matamoros, o'clock P. M., May , . " SIR : I have the honour to report that I marched with the main body of the army at two o'clock to-day, having previously thrown forward a body of light infantry into the forest which covers the Matamoros road. When near the spot where I am now encamped, my advance discovered that a ravine crossing the road had been occupied by the enemy with artillery. I immediately ordered a battery of field-artillery to sweep the position, flanking and sustaining it by the d, th, and th regiments, deployed as skirmishers to the right and left. A heavy fire of artillery and of musketry was kept up for some time, until finally the enemy's batteries were carried in succession by a squadron of dragoons and the regiments of infantry that were on the ground. He was soon driven from his position, and pursued by a squadron of dragoons, battalion of artillery, d infantry, and a light battery, to the river. Our victory has been complete. Eight pieces of artillery, with a great quantity of ammunition, three standards, and some one hundred prisoners have been taken ; among the latter, General La Vega, and several other officers. One general is understood to have been killed. The enemy has recrossed the river, and I am sure will not again molest us on this bank. gc The loss of the enemy in killed has been most severe. Our own has been very heavy, and I deeply regret to report that Lieutenant Inge, d dragoons, Lieutenant Cochrane, th infantry, and Lieutenant Chadbourne, th infantry, were killed on the field. Lieutenant-Colonel Payne, th artillery; Lieutenant-Colonel McIntosh, Lieutenant Dobbins, d infantry ; Captain Hooe, and Lieutenant Fowler, th infantry ; and Captain Montgomery, Lieutenants Gates, Selden, McClay, Burbank, and Jordan, th infantry, were wounded. The extent of our loss in killed and wounded is not yet ascertained, and is reserved for a more detailed report. cc The air of to-day may be regarded as a proper supplement to the cannonade of yesterday ; and the two taken together, exhibit the coolness and gallantry of our officers and men in the most favourable light. All have done their duty, and done it nobly. It will be my pride, in a more circumstantial report of both actions, to dwell upon particular instances of individual distinction. cg It affords me peculiar pleasure to report that the field-work opposite Matamoros has sustained itself handsomely during a cannonade and bombardment of a hundred and sixty hours. But the pleasure is alloyed with profound regret at the loss of its heroic and indomitable commander, Major Brown, who died to-day from the effect of a shell. His loss would be a severe one to the service at any time, but to the army under my orders, it is indeed irreparable. One officer and one non-commissioned officer killed, and ten men wounded, comprise all the casualties incident to this severe bombardment. cg I inadvertently omitted to mention the capture of a large number of pack-mules left in the Mexican camp. t I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gen. U. S. .., command*. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." The day after the battle of Resaca de la Palma, wag devoted to the burial of the slain ; in which sad duty the heart of many a DraVe SOlUler sang W mm, mat the uay DeIOre naa rusted upon the bayonet or lance-point, or braved death at the cannon's mouth. Their honoured remains were laid at length in their resting-places, beneath the turf on which they fought and fell, and the rolling volleys of musketry fired, that were the last sad tribute to the dead from those who had shared with them the trials and the triumphs of a soldier's life. Nor did friends only share in this sacred duty, at the hands of the conqueror. With a generosity and manliness of soul equal to the stern bravery of his spirit in battle, General Taylor paid the same scrupulous regard to the dead and wounded Mexicans. Not being able to attend properly to all, he sent over to Matamoros for Mexican surgeons, to assist in taking care of their wounded left on the field, and for men to assist in burying the dead. On the morning of the th, agreeably to the request of General Arista, an exchange of prisoners took place, and Captains Thornton and Hardee, and Lieutenant Kane, with the gallant little band captured by General Torrejon, were marched on foot to the battle-field, and there exchanged for an equal number of officers and men captured in the action of the th. As there was an excess of Mexican prisoners, they were delivered to their countrymen, a receipt being taken for their number, to be held against future chances of capture. General Vega was offered his parole, but declined the acceptance, as he knew his government would force him to bear arms, notwithstanding his pledge to the contrary. After this General Taylor set out for Point Isabel, to confer with Commodore Conner respecting the reduction of Matamoros, Barita, and Camargo ; while the army, under Colonel Twiggs, left the battle-ground, and took up its former position on the left of the Rio Bravo. Before General Taylor departed he published the following order, in acknowledgment of the gallantry and good conduct of the troops :— HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY or OCCUPATION, Renal de la Palma, May , . cc The commanding-general congratulates the army under his command upon the signal success which has crowned its recent operations against the enemy. The coolness and steadiness of the troops during the action of the th, and the brilliant impetuosity with which the enemy's position and artillery were carried on the th, have displayed the best qualities of the American soldier. To every officer and soldier of his command, the general returns his thanks for the noble manner in which they have sustained the honour of the service and of the country. While the main body of the army has been thus actively employed, the garrison left opposite Matamoros has rendered no less distinguished service, by sustaining a severe cannonade and bombardment for many successive days. The army and the country, while justly rejoicing in this triumph of our arms, will deplore the loss of many brave officers and men who fell gallantly in the hour of combat. tc It being necessary for the commanding-general to visit Point Isabel on public business, Colonel Twiggs will assume command of the corps of the army near Matamoros, including the garrison of the field-work. He will occupy the former lines of the army, making such dispositions for defence and for the comfort of his command as he may deem advisable. He will hold himself strictly on the defensive until the return of the commanding-general. ci By order of Brigadier-General Taylor. W. W. J. BLISS, Ad. Adj.-Geperal." General Parrode, of the department of Tamaulipas, after the actions of the th and th of May, published a manifesto to the army under his command, which is in striking contrast with the congratulatory orders of the American general to his victorious troops. It breathes a spirit of patriotism and bravery, which is honourable to a manly mind. If such sentiments had inspired the Mexicans generally, they would have been invincible to any foe. The Commander-in-chief of the Department of Tamaulipas to the troops under his command. FELLOW-CTLZENS : The afternoon of the th of this month our brothers of Matamoros have fought with intrepidity and enthusiasm in the Fanques del Raminero. On the th they charged with the same ardour. But fate has not crowned our efforts. The enemy passed from the fort, favoured by the dense smoke of a wood on fire, which protected them from our shot. Thus have our enemies escaped! cc Soldiers! another time we shall conquer. Such is the fate of war, a defeat to-day and glory to-morrow ; that glory which shall be ours at the end of this holy struggle. The God of battles is trying our valour, but he has not abandoned us. We know how to conquer, and we know how to suffer. dc Soldiers! the lamentation of the soldier for the companion who dies on the field of battle ought to be a shot well-aimed at the enemy. Those are the tears which our brothers require of our love. Their tomb must be raised in the American camp. The corpses of the Yankees ought to form their mausoleums. e Soldiers! if we have lost some of our brothers, the glory will be greater, there will be fewer conquerors ; it is not the number which gives victory. There were but three hundred Spartans, and the powerful Xerxes did not cross the Thermopylae. The celebrated army of the great Napoleon perished in Spain at the hands of a defenceless people, but they were free and intrepid, and were fighting for their liberty. cc Fellow-soldiers ! shall we do less than they did ? We are fighting for our liberty, our religion, our country, our cradles, our graves. Let him who does not wish to die a traitor, him who wishes to deserve the tears of his children, let him take breath and sustain his courage. He must not faint, he must not fear, but what have we to fear ? The heart tells us that in it we shall find all that is requisite ; and our hearts we will oppose to the enemy. cc Soldiers ! vengeance for our brothers ! glory for our children ! honour for our country ! tot We defend those cherished feelings. Do not fear. I swear to you that if the day be a laborious one, our glory will be sweeter ; but glory we will have, and your general and companion will attain it with your loyalty and valour. ANASTASIO PARRODE. Timm°, May th, ." CHAPTER X. Assistance afforded by Commodore Conner—Reduction of Barita—Taylor's arrival at Fort Brown—Preparations for attacking Matamoros—Cause of Taylor's inactivity after the Battles of the th and th of May—Letter to the War Department —Occupation of Matamoros—Arista's Flight—He is ordered to lay down his command—The War announced to Congress—President's Proclamation—Inefficient preparations for War—Rejoicings in the United States for the victories at Palo Alto and Resaca de is Palma—Taylor breveted a Major-General—Act of Congress promoting him to full rank—Appointment of General Officers—Occupation of Reynosa—Capture of Camargo—Of Mier—Organisation of the Army—Departure for Seralvo—Letter to the Adjutant-General—March on Monterey. WHILE at Point Isabel, General Taylor published an order, in which he suitably recognised the merit of Major Munroe, who commanded at Point Isabel, and all the officers and men under his command, for the energy and activity which they had displayed in fortifying the place. In this praise Commodore Conner also participated. While cruising off the harbour of Vera Cruz, he had heard of the preparations of the Mexicans, at Matamoros, to attack the American army, and with great promptitude had sailed for Point Isabel, to render any assistance in his power. The five hundred marines, whom he caused to land and aid the garrison, contributed much towards putting it in a proper state of defence. Having made his arrangements with Commodore Conner for a combined movement up the river, General Taylor set out for Point Isabel on the morning of the th ; but on his way thither he was met by a courier, with intelligence that the enemy was receiving reinforcements, and was fortifying Barita and other points near the mouth of the river. In consequence of this, the general returned to the Point, and found that a small body of regulars, and some volunteer troops from Alabama and Louisiana, had just arrived. The volunteers were in prompt answer to his late call for additional troops. General Taylor promptly organized a command, under Colonel Wilson, for the reduction of Barita, consisting of three hundred regulars, and three hundred and fifty volunteers. Of the latter, two companies were from Louisiana, under Captains Stockton and Tobin, and one company from Alabama, under General Desha. At one o'clock in the afternoon of the th, the command took up its line of march from the Brazos, while three steamers ascended the river, to transport the troops at the proper place. Commodore Conner ordered, at the same time, a part of the fleet to appear off the mouth of the river, to co-operate with them. Colonel Wilson proceeded up the river towards Barita, in momentary expectation of an attack from the cavalry, who were reported to be in the vicinity, and took possession of the town without any resistance. The inhabitants fled on his approach, without firing a gun. He immediately issued a manifesto, in which he invited them to return to their dwellings, and assured them of the peaceable enjoyment of all their civil and religious rights. On the th of May, General Taylor left Point Isabel, with six hundred men, a train of artillery, and two hundred and fifty wagons, loaded with stores, and reached Fort Brown on the evening of the same day. He determined to attack Matamoros the next day, if possible. It required, however, considerable time and effort to make preparations for transporting the troops across the river, and to mount the two -inch mortars destined to throw shell into the city, should it not be surrendered. On the morning of the th, everything was ready ; and it was arranged that, while General Taylor moved upon Matamoros, Colonel Wilson, at The same time, should advance from Banta. The delay of General Taylor in following up the advantages of the battles of the th and th of May, was owing to the neglect of the War Department, to furnish him a ponton train, and heavy mortars, as requested in his letters of the former year. The following letter presents a detailed account of the occupation of Matamoros by the American troops:— " HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY OF OCCUPATION, City of Matamoros, May , . cc SIR : I have the honour to report that my very limited means of crossing rivers prevented a complete prosecution of the victory of the th instant. A ponton train, the necessity of which I exhibited to the department last year, would have enabled the army to have crossed on the evening of the battle, take this city, with all the artillery and stores of the enemy, and a great number of prisoners. In short, to destroy entirely the Mexican army. But I was compelled to await the arrival of heavy mortars, with which to menace the town from the left bank, and also the accumulation of small boats. In the mean time, the enemy had somewhat recovered from the confusion of his flight, and ought still, with three thousand men left him, to have made a respectable defence. I made every preparation to cross the river above the town, while Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson made a diversion on the side of Barita, and the order of march was given out for one o'clock yesterday, from the camp near Fort Brown, when I was waited upon by General Reguena, empowered by General Arista, commanding-in-chief the Mexican forces, to treat for an armistice until the government should finally settle the question. I replied to this, that an armistice was out of the question ; that a month since I had proposed one to General Ampudia, which was declined ; that circumstances were now changed ; that I was receiving large reinforcements, and could not now suspend operations which I had not invited or provoked ; that the possession of Matamoros was a sine qua non; that our troops -Would occupy the town ; but that General Arista might withdraw his forces, leaving the public property of every description. ec An answer to the above was promised in the afternoon, but none came ; and I repaired at sundown to join the army, already in position at a crossing some two miles above the town. Very early this morning the bank was occupied by two -pounders, and three batteries of field-artillery, and the crossing commenced : the light companies of all the battalions were first thrown over, followed by the volunteer and regular cavalry. No resistance was made, and I was soon informed from various quarters that Arista had abandoned the town, with all his troops, the evening before, leaving only the sick and wounded. I immediately despatched a staff-officer to the prefect to demand a surrender ; and, in the mean time, a commission was sent by the prefect to confer with me on the same point. I gave assurance that the civil rights of the citizens would be respected, and our troops at once dropped down opposite the town, and crossed at the Upper Ferry,' the American flag being displayed at Fort Paredes, a Mexican redoubt near the crossing. The different corps now encamped in the outskirts of the city. To-morrow I shall make suitable arrangements for the occupation of the town, and for taking possession of the public property. More than three hundred of the enemy's wounded have been left in the hospitals. Arista is in full retreat towards Monterey, with the fragments of his army. ci I deeply regret to report that Lieutenant George Stevens, a very promising young officer; of the d dragoons, was accidentally drowned this morning while attempting to swim the river with his squadron. ct I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Brevet Brig. Gene U. S. A., commanding. The Adjutard-General. of the Army, Washington, D. C.P The proposition of Arista for an armistice, was a dishonourable artifice to gain time, that he might be enabled to withdraw or destroy the public and military stores of the city. At the very moment he solicited it, his troops were busily engaged in burying artillery or throwing it into wells, and in destroying or concealing arms and ammunition. After taking possession of the city, General Taylor, with great humanity and courtesy, adopted efficient means for the protection of the persons and property of the citizens. A single guard was allowed in the city, the rest of the troops were distributed in the suburbs and vicinity. Colonel Twiggs was appointed governor of the city. Arista left Matamoros on the evening of the th, with the remnant of his army, and fled in the direction of Camargo. He continued his retreat into the interior, and towards the close of the month arrived at the hacienda of Coma, with the shattered columns of his troops, many having died from the privations and fatigue of forced marches, and others having deserted and formed predatory bands, that plundered their defenceless countrymen. From Coma he continued his march to Monterey. While here, he was ordered to lay down his command and repair to Mexico, to answer for the reverses of the army under his orders ; but, dreading the character of Paredes, he refused to appear at the seat of government. On the th of May, , the President of the United States announced to Congress the commencement of hostilities between the Mexican and American armies, and used the following language :—" A war exists ; and, notwithstanding all our efforts to avoid it, exists by the act of Mexico herself. We are called upon by every consideration of duty and patriotism to vindicate with decision, the honour, the rights, and the interests of our country." Immediately after, Congress passed an act recognising the existence of war, and appropriating ten millions of dollars, and empowering the President to accept the services of fifty thousand volunteers for the army. The appropriations were made with great promptness and unanimity, but that part of the preamble which declared the war to exist by the act of Mexico, met with great opposition. The proclamation of the President was immediately issued, and, with an ardour unprecedented in military annals, volunteers rushed to the call of their country. The influx of troops, how- ever, was so great and so rapid, that General Taylor was completely embarrassed by their arrival—for they were unaccompanied by proper supplies and adequate means of transportation. This irregularity was, in part, owing to the indiscreet zeal of General Gaines ; who, in his anxiety to reinforce the Army of Occupation, had exceeded his instructions. Owing to the perplexing circumstances in which he was placed, General Taylor was unable to follow up the advantages gained over the enemy in the late battles. This will appear more particularly by an extract from a letter to the War Department, dated June d :- « I am necessarily detained at this point for want of suitable transportation to carry on offensive operations. There is not a steamboat at my command proper for the navigation of the Rio Grande ; and without water transportation, I consider it useless to attempt any extensive movement. Measures have been taken to procure boats of suitable draught and description, and one or two may now be expected. In the mean time, I propose to push a battalion of infantry as far as Reynosa, and occupy that town. For any operations in the direction of Monterey, it will be necessary to establish a large depot at Camargo, which I shall lose no time in doing as soon as proper transports arrive, unless I receive counter-instructions from the Department. lc I trust the Department will see that I could not possibly have anticipated the arrival of such heavy reinforcements from Louisiana as are now here, and on their way hither. Without large means of transportation, this force will embarrass, rather than facilitate our operations. I cannot doubt that the Department has already given instructions, based upon the change in our position since my first call for volunteers." Although General Taylor had asked but for eight regiments of men, his army was enlarged far beyond the requisition he had made, by successive arrivals of troops, while he was unable to make any forward movement for want of all the materials necessary for an invading army. With the straight-forward policy which has always characterized his conduct, he addressed a letter to the adjutant-general of the army on the th of June, in which he set forth the situation in which he was placed, in plain and explicit terms. cg I beg leave earnestly to invite the attention of the Department to the following points :- "First. The great influx of volunteers at Point Isabel. Five regiments certainly from Louisiana, numbering, say men ; two regiments or battalions from Louisville and St. Louis, numbering, say more ; several companies from Alabama, and I know not how many from Texas ; the latter now beginning to arrive. The volunteer troops, now under my orders, amount to nearly men. How far they may be increased without previous notification to me, it is impossible to tell. ‘ Secondly. The entire want of the proper kind of transportation to push my operations up the river. The boats on which I depended for this service were found to be nearly destroyed by worms, and entirely unfit for the navigation of the river. At my instance, Major Thomas, on the th of May, required from Lieutenant-Colonel Hunt a boat of the proper description, and followed it up in a few days by a requisition for another. At the last dates from New Orleans no boat had been procured. Captain Sanders, of the engineers, was despatched by me to New Orleans, to assist in procuring suitable boats, but I have yet received no report from him. cc As I have previously reported, my operations are completely paralyzed by the want of suitable steamboats to navigate the Rio Grande. Since the th of May, the army has lain in camp near this place, continually receiving heavy reinforcements of men, but no facility for water transport, without which, additional numbers are but an embarrassment. It I desire to place myself right in this matter, and to let the Department see that the inactivity of the army results from no neglect of mine. I must express my astonishment that such large reinforcements have been sent forward to join the army, without being accompanied by the means of transportation, both by land and water, to render them efficient. As matters now stand, whatever may be the expectations of the Department, I cannot move from this place and unless Captain Sanders shall succeed in procuring boats of the proper kind, I can give no assurance in regard to future operations." In a letter to the same, dated a week later, General Taylor, with the frankness of a soldier, unwilling to have his character misconceived, complained of the delay of the Department to provide him with the means of offensive operations, while the country was expecting him to prosecute the campaign. He uses the following plain language :— (c No steamboats have been sent out from New Orleans for the navigation of the Rio Grande, and in the absence of all information upon that point, or respecting the views of the government, I am altogether in the dark as to our future operations. I must think that orders have been given, by superior authority, to suspend the forwarding of means of transportation from New Orleans. I cannot otherwise account for the extraordinary delay shown by the Quartermaster's Department in that city. Even the mails, containing probably important despatches from the government, are not expedited. gc Volunteer regiments have arrived from Louisville and St. Louis, making, with those from Louisiana, eight strong and organized battalions— mustering' over men. ci In addition, we have seven companies of Alabama volunteers, and twelve or fifteen companies from Texas. Others from Texas are continually arriving. A portion of these volunteers has been lying in camp at this place for nearly a month, completely paralyzed by the want of transportation. Exposed as they are in this climate to diseases of the camp, and without any prospect, so far as I can see, of being usefully employed, I must recommend that they be allowed to return to their homes." Great fears had been entertained throughout the country for the safety of General Taylor and his little army, when threatened by the legions of Arista ; and the brilliant victories of the th and th of May came unexpectedly, and filled the whole country with enthusiastic admiration. In almost every city, meetings were called to express the general joy, and legislative and municipal bodies vied with each other in awarding honour to the triumphant general and his troops. The President of the United States immediately forwarded General Taylor a commission, as Major-General by brevet ; and, with great cordiality, expressed the profound sense which he entertained of the meritorious services of the gallant general, and all the officers and men under his command. On the th of June, Congress passed an act, promoting him to the rank of a full Major-General in the army of the United States; and shortly after, the Secretary of War forwarded his commission, with remarks of a complimentary character. About this time, general officers were appointed to command the volunteer troops. They were, William . Butler of Kentucky, and Robert Patterson of Pennsylvania, major-generals ; no* • -- 'h:yeiril Aililli , ES _I [ (	f	,\\\\ and Gideon J. Pillow of Tennessee, Thomas L. Hamer of Ohio, John A. Quitman of Mississippi, Thomas Marshall of Kentucky, Joseph Lane of Indiana, and James Shields of Illinois, brigadier-generals. Generals Butler and Patterson were officers in the army during the last war with Great Britain, and the former was distinguished for his good conduct at the battle of New Orleans, where he was a member of General Jackson's staff. While waiting for boats, and other things necessary to enable him to make a forward movement with the main body of the army, General Taylor had sent detachments to occupy the different towns up the Rio Grande, whose occupation was necessary to his advance upon Monterey. On the st of June, the Alcalde of Reynosa, together with many of the principal citizens of the place, tired of the depredations and ill treatment of the rancheros, waited on General Taylor, asking the protection of the American flag, and tendering the surrender of the town. Accordingly, on the th, General Taylor despatched Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson, with the st infantry, a section of Bragg's battery, under Lieutenant Thomas, and Price's Texan rangers, to take possession of the place and hold it. After a fatiguing march of four days and a half, the colonel reached Reynosa with his command, and took undisputed possession. He was ordered by the commanding-general to throw up intrenchments, and fortify the place ; but he occupied with his troops the plaza, which was sufficiently protected by the heavy stone buildings that surrounded it, without additional defences. Having determined to make Camargo his principal depot and the base of his future operations, General Taylor ordered Captain Miles, of the th infantry, to capture the town from the enemy. It was held at that time by about seven hundred rancheros, under General Canales. The captain's orders were, on reaching Reynosa to take two pieces of Bragg's battery, commanded by Lieu- tenant Thomas, and Captain McCullough's company of Texan rangers. The latter, with three companies of the th infantry, were to march by land, under Captain Holmes ; Captain Miles, with the other three companies, was to ascend the river in steamers. This expedition was considered an honourable testimonial to the bravery of the defenders of Fort Brown. The progress of the boats was slow, on account of the flood ; and one, with Captain Ross and company, was left behind. The other, with Captain Miles and the other two companies, continued on. About dusk, while moving on in utter ignorance of the bearings of the river, an American, named Davis, was discovered lurking in the swamp to escape from Canales, from whom they learned that the boat was just below the mouth of the river San Juan, and within two miles of Camargo. Their informant also stated, that Canales was then in town with about two hundred men, and intended fighting, if the citizens would permit him. On approaching the town, Captain Miles sent that night to the Alcalde, General Taylor's proclamation, and his own summons for the surrender of the town. He gave notice, that he would take possession at nine o'clock the next morning. About midnight the Alcalde returned answer, that the town would be given up as demanded. The entire force under Captain Miles, officers and men, did not exceed eighty-five ; yet with these he boldly advanced and took formal possession, at nine o'clock on the th of July. As the troops entered the town, Canales with his cavalry scampered out towards the west. This small force held the town until the morning of the th, when Captain Holmes arrived with his command, and on the evening of the same day, Captain Ross with his company. The whole then took possession of the grand plaza, and held the place. Soon after the planting of the American standard at this place, steamboats arrived daily, freighted with troops and government stores, and the river-banks were lined with tiers of barrels, boxes, and bales. MAJ. (EN WILLIAM C. EL/ TLP:R. On the last day of July, Captain Vinton took undisputed possession of Mier, with a company of the d artillery, and a small party of Texan rangers, and stacked his arms in the plaza. After the capture of Matamoros, the steady influx of volunteers from the United States, increased the strength of the army to over nine thousand men. On the th of August, General Taylor, having completed all his arrangements for a forward movement, left Matamoros for Camargo, which had been occupied as a main depot for provisions. On the th of the same month, the army was organized in two divisions. The First Divison, under Brigadier-General Twiggs, consisted of four companies of the d dragoons, Lieutenant-Colonel May, and Captain Ridgely's battery ; Captain Bragg's battery, d infantry, Major Lear, and th infantry, Major Allen, forming the Third Brigade of regulars, and commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Garland ; and the st infantry, Major Abercrombie, and the Baltimore and Washington battalion, Lieutenant-Colonel Watson, forming the Fourth Brigade, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson. This division numbered two thousand and eighty men. The Second Division, under General Worth, consisted of Lieutenant-Colonel Duncan's battery, the artillery battalion, Lieutenant-Colonel Childs, and th infantry, Captain Scrivner, forming the First Brigade, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Staniford ; and Lieutenant Mackall's battery, th infantry, Major M. Scott, th infantry, Captain Miles, and Captain Blanchard's company of Louisiana volunteers, forming the Second Brigade, commanded by Colonel P. F. Smith, of the mounted riflemen. The whole column amounted to seventeen hundred and eighty men. On the arrival of the volunteers, a third division was organized, under the command of Major-General Butler, consisting of the st Kentucky regiment, Colonel Ormsby, and st Ohio regiment, Colonel Mitchell, forming the first brigade, commanded by General Hamer; and the st Tennessee regiment, Colonel Campbell, and Mississippi regiment, Colonel Davis, forming the Second Brigade, commanded by General Quitman. The sum total of this division was two thousand eight hundred and ten men. The Texas Division, which arrived during the march upon Monterey, consisted of the st and d regiments of mounted volunteers, under Colonels Hays and Woods. It was commanded by Governor T. Pinckney Henderson, with the rank of major-general, and was detached, as occasion required, to co-operate with the other divisions. The total number of effectives destined for this particular service, was, therefore, six thousand six hundred and seventy men. Besides these, a garrison, of two thousand men was established at Camargo, for the protection of that important point, and small detachments at points of less significance. Of these six thousand six hundred men composing the divisions organized for marching upon Monterey, nearly four thousand were raw and undisciplined volunteers. The march to Monterey was commenced on the th of August, by the Second Division, under General Worth, moving upon Seralvo, with the view of occupying that place as a depot of supplies. The First Division, under Twiggs, followed on the st of the same month. The Volunteer Division was ordered to bring up the rear, as fast as the means of transportation arrived. On the th of September General Taylor started for Seralvo, leaving Major-General Patterson in command at Camargo, with authority over all the troops between that place and the mouth of the Rio Grande,—some three thousand in number. A considerable portion of these troops might have been added to the main column, under General Taylor, if sufficient means of transportation has been at his disposal. Before leaving Camargo, General Taylor addressed to the Adjutant-General of the army a letter, which, as it will relieve him from the imputation of any want of promptness in the prosecution of the campaign, we give entire :— HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY OF OCCUPATION, Camargo, September , . " SIR : Before marching for the interior, I beg leave to place on record some remarks touching an important branch of the public service, the proper administration of which is indispensable to the efficiency of a campaign. I refer to the Quartermaster's Department. There is at this moment, when the army is about to take up a long line of march, a great deficiency of proper means of transport, and of many important supplies. tc On the th April, when first apprising you of the increased force called out by me, I wrote that I trusted the War Department would give the necessary orders to the staff department, for the supply of this large additional force ;' and when first advised of the heavy force of twelve-months' volunteers ordered hither, I could not doubt that such masses of troops would be accompanied, or, preferably, preceded by ample means of transportation, and all other supplies necessary to render them efficient. But such has not been the case. Suitable steamboats for the Rio Grande were not procured without repeated efforts directed from this quarter, and many weeks elapsed before a lodgment could be made at this place, the river being perfectly navigable. gc After infinite delays and embarrassments, I have succeeded in bringing forward a portion of the army to this point, and now the steamers procured in Pittsburg are just arriving. I hazard nothing in saying, that if proper foresight and energy had been displayed in sending out suitable steamers to navigate the Rio Grande, our army would long since have been in possession of Monterey. gg Again, as to land-transport. At this moment our wagon train is considerably less than when we left Corpus Christi, our force being increased fivefold. Had we depended upon means from without, the army would not have been able to move from this place. But fortunately the means of land-transport existed to some extent in the country, in the shape of pack-mules, and we have formed a train which will enable a small army to advance perhaps to Monterey. I wish it distinctly understood, that our ability to move is due wholly to means created here, and which could not have been reckoned upon with safety in Washington. cc I have adverted to the grand points of water and land transportation. Of the want of minor supplies, the army has suffered more than enough. The crying deficiency of camp equipage has been partially relieved by the issue of cotton tents, of indifferent quality. Our cavalry has been paralyzed by the want of horseshoes, horseshoe-nails, and even common blacksmith's tools, while many smaller deficiencies are daily brought to my notice. (c I respectfully request that the above statement, which I make in justice to myself and the service, may be laid before the General-in-Chief and Secretary of War. c( I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Maj. Gen. U. S. A., commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." On the th, the First and Second Divisions, now close up with each other, entered in admirable order the beautiful little town of Seralvo, accompanied by the General-in-Chief. At this place, a number of proclamations from General Amptidia gave the first authentic information that the possession of Monterey would be disputed. The information received by General Taylor respecting the force and disposition of the enemy, had been hitherto of the most meagre and contradictory character. So late as the st of August, General Taylor, writing to the War Department, stated, from what he supposed reliable information, that there were cg not more than two thousand or twenty-five hundred regu- lar troops at Monterey, and a considerable number of the militia of the country." This force he estimates in all as not over six thousand, and expresses himself in a subsequent letter as doubtful whether Ampudia would attempt to hold the city. Most of the reports coincided, with regard to the number of troops at Monterey ; while some Mexicans, professing to come direct from the city, asserted that the American army would meet with no opposition. The tidings, however, gradually assumed a graver and less dubious character. On the th of September, a spy came in from Monterey with far more accurate information, concerning the force of the gar- rison and the strength of the works, than any previously received. His relation seemed so extravagant, that many of the officers did not believe it at all. A map of the batteries reported by him to protect the town, was, however, made by a member of the staff of General Worth. The next day the pioneers of the army, consolidated into one party, under the command of Captain Craig, were thrown for- ward on the route to Malin, for the purpose of making the road practicable for artillery and wagons. The operations of this party were covered by Captain Graham's squadron of dragoons, and McCullough's company of rangers. On arriving the following day at Papagayo, the enemy appeared in considerable force ; and Captain Craig, believing his party inadequate to venture an attack, despatched a courier to hasten on the First Division. On the th, Captain McCullough, with forty rangers, set out on an expedition to the town of Ramas. After skirmishes with inconsiderable parties, he attacked two hundred of the enemy near the town, and after a spirited firing, charged them at full speed and drove them through the town. He returned to the advance after this engagement, and found that General Taylor had arrived with the First Division. The column of Major-General Butler having arrived, the First Division was put in motion towards Marin on the th, closely followed by the Second Division and that of the volunteers. This march was excessively fatiguing both to men and horses the days were intensely hot, and the road both rocky and rugged. But the character of the scenery along the line of route was of a description well calculated to beguile even the wayworn soldier of some portion of his weariness. In front, and on either hand, magnificent mountains were piled over one another in an ascending series, until the abrupt and fantastic peaks of the highest range stood out clearly defined against the deep blue of the cloudless sky. These mountains, clothed with chaparral and delicate flowering shrubs, presented at every turn of the road an ever-varying aspect, while valleys of extraordinary beauty, broken by bold hills and precipitous chasms, lent a constant charm to scenes which the gallant little army, with its artillery and wagons and mules stretched out for miles among the undulations of the hills, imbued with spirit and with life. But the pleasant emotions elicited by the loveliness of the country through which the troops were passing soon changed to feelings of a more stirring character, when the enemy's cavalry were seen hovering in the distance, and reports of occasional skirmishes were passed from lip to lip. Slowly receding, however, as the American troops advanced, tne swarthy lancers of Torrejon seldom suffered either the dragoons or rangers to come within easy fighting distance. Near the dilapidated village of Mann the First Division encamped on the th, until the rear divisions came up. The village was found almost entirely deserted. The cavalry of the IOUGUA W F WW- al., LICUA .. V GU WAG FVVIVL FV./C AZIW the chaparral, and carried with them the local authorities. Here General Taylor concluded to remain two days, in order to concentrate his forces. Even this brief halt was of considerable service in resting his men from the fatigues of the march. From the tower of the cathedral at Marin, the city of Monterey, though still twenty-five miles distant, was distinctly visible. Its picturesque appearance, embosomed among mountains, was the source of many an animated remark between the officers and their subordinates, as they surveyed, apparently so near, the point at which it was now ascertained a garrison of nine thousand men was assembled, protected by fortifications of the most formidable character. The troops, at length, certainly expected to meet with a stubborn resistance ; and this expectation was partially confirmed on the evening of the th, by a letter which the General-in-Chief received from the Spanish consul at Monterey, inquiring whether the property of foreigners in that city would be respected. The reply returned by General Taylor was, that if the town should be taken by assault, he could not be responsible for the consequences that might ensue. On the morning of the th, the First Division, followed by the Second and Third, took up its line of march, and reached the town of Francisco. At Agua Frio, eleven miles from Marin, the army was joined the same evening by a brigade of mounted Texans, under General Henderson. The well earned reputation for daring bravery which this class of soldiers had acquired, made so strong a reinforcement, when within a few hours' march of the city of Monterey, as inspiriting as it was seasonable. At sunrise the next morning, General Taylor and his staff, accompanied by McCullough's and Gillespie's rangers, pushed forward to reconnoitre the city, closely supported by Henderson's noble brigade. The columns of Twigga, Worth, and Butler, advancing in order of battle, followed. By nine o'clock A. M., the army had reached within three miles of the city, when the report of a cannon suddenly startled the air and echoed from mountain to mountain. This was followed by others in quick succession. It was the challenge of Ampudia. The men no longer felt weary. Inspired with new energies, and filled with the most enthusiastic ardour, they pushed rapidly forward, ready to answer at once, if need be, that daring challenge to battle, the voice of whose thunder was still reverberating among the mountains. But General Taylor was already aware, that before the cornmencement of the assault a more extended knowledge of the enemy's strong points would be necessary. He saw at once that the contest, come when it might, would be fierce and sanguinary. The brief reconnoissance he had been enabled to make, showed him strong forts and batteries, surrounding a compactly built city, the thick walls of whose houses might well afford protection to a determined enemy, whose expulsion would require the utmost exercise of coolness and daring. Quickening their pace, and shouting as they ran, the troops of the First Division soon reached the spot where the General-inChief, surrounded by his staff, was quietly surveying with his glass the defences of the city. This being done, and reconnoissances ordered to commence at once, the division was countermarched until it reached the beautiful grove called Walnut Springs, where the army was encamped for the night. These lovely and secluded woods, soon to become famous in history as the favourite camp of General Taylor, consist of a magnificent collection of pecan and live-oak trees, flourishing with the greatest luxuriance, in what must have formerly been the basin of a small oblong lake. The grounds, sloping on all sides towards the centre, are naturally beautified by numberless springs, fountains, and cascades. The grove of San Domingo, or Walnut Springs, the pride and constant resort of the citizens of Monterey, is preserved with the most scrupulous care. it is three miles long, and about three-quarters of a mile in width. Within its sylvan recesses many a gay group had listened to the music of guitar and mandolin, and bounded through the intricate mazes of the dance with light hearts and laughing lips. Among its cool shadows, and where the silence was only broken by the lulling sounds of rivulet and waterfall, many a loving couple had given utterance, in the stately music of the Spanish tongue, to the beautiful fancies with which young passionate hearts build up the romance of the unknown future. The scene was now changed. Guitar and mandolin had given place to the spirit-stirring sounds of trumpet-blast and drum—the neighing of war-steeds, and the clash of arms. Where the light feet of joyous dancers once bounded merrily, the heavy tramp of martial men now fell in measured stroke upon the ear ; and where delighted lovers once breathed their ardent vows, the watchful sentinel now paced his solitary round. Led by a sturdy gray-haired man, quiet and unostentatious in manner, but bold in resolve, and energetic in action, the hardy warriors of the North had pitched their tents among the cool and grateful shadows of the sequestered grove, and now waited with high hopes and a quicker pulse the fierce events of that morrow which was to bring to many a hero's grave—to all, a soldier's glory. CHAPTER XL. Monterey—Defences of the City—Mexican Forces—Reconnoissances—Worth's Column of Attack—Occupation of the Pass in the west—Defences in that direction —Operations of the First Division—Colonel Garland's command—Severe fire from the Enemy's Batteries—Fall of Major Barbour and Colonel Watson—Captain Backus-th Infantry—General Quitman's Attack on Redoubt No. —Redoubt taken and guns turned on the Enemy—General Butler's command—Cavalry repulsed by Bragg's battery—Worth's Operations—Engagement with the Lancers—Storming-party under Captain Smith-th Infantry under Captain Miles—Reinforcement under General Smith—Attack on Federacion Hill and Fort Soldada—Taken and occupied—Storming-party under Lieutenant Childs—Independence Hill—Sortie from the Bishop's Palace—Palace taken—Operations under General Taylor—Approach to the Grand Plaza—Capitulation—Terms of the Convention. MONTEREY, the capital of New Leon, is situated on the northern bank of the Arroyo Topa, in the valley of San Juan. The Sierra Madre girdles, and in some places closely approaches it on three sides, but receding on the North, leaves the whole extent of the valley and its tributaries open in the direction of Marin. The city is approached in front by the roads from Marin and Guadalupe, and on the West through a stupendous rift of the Sierra Madre, by the road from Saltillo. Northward from Monterey run the roads to Monclova and Presqueria Grande. While on the South, across the Topa, a road extends in the direction of Guaxuco. West of the city, the approaches were defended by Fort Independencia, a strong work on the crest of a steep hill, and by the Bishop's Palace, a castellated structure on the slope of the same hill, below. South of these, on the other side of the river, was Federacion Hill and an adjoining height, both of which were fortified by redoubts and batteries. In front, and to the north of the city, was the citadel, also regularly fortified. yku '	, . E GE N I). tilt, Aoad	sa BATTLE of ".olupe. 	.•	VEtaa ...Embus( ado aebra.an of .(P! B	Yard into whab	fir,d in nightfall on •	elairge ol' .(..twan Lancers an roniita of. •	Poriiron	'`Donsant ,on E	...formed : Col Chihli on L'. 	F	Palace owned .. Qow o'inolCparp• and ^	Reduohe oornad b. tnari‘ Antiat 		house curd- garden, 	J	(hol.rio wed cc' 'try, wuth tosp hat for halt •	Plaxmla dr faro. L	.small Plata 	M	Grand Pla.ui •	fliodr O	Mortar P Q Po...awn •oarupeod by ow troop, on Mt Maratha 	I	&doubt of ' soak.' a.i.A'aalixd arta' rarrued on IA, IL, Ad Pol.,lon &doubt la' . grave Sr+ Brea..-t work,- 		Ti,, di Toot e	at' . ciurz... 		Aaluaoht of gear a.a.b. Lint or' barriril..• Pooldmpa of Seirrrerd These -tt thaw the paetpon of Corn nioporral DNTEREY In advance of the city, to the east, the works consisted of a succession of strong redoubts, mounting fourteen guns ; and behind these, and within the city, were infantry breastworks supporting the redoubts. In rear of these, again, was a line of barricades, commanding all the avenues, and the terrible tete-dupont of the Purisima bridge. Nor were these all ; the houses being strongly built of stone, their flat roofs and low parapets afforded shelter to numbers of armed men, whose commanding position enabled them to direct a plunging fire upon the assailants; while the batteries, breastworks, and barricades below, were raking the streets.	• The correct force of the enemy, as subsequently verified, was ten thousand men, of whom seven thousand were regular troops. Notwithstanding this large force, General Taylor felt confident of being able to carry the place by storm, by the bayonet, and by artillery. Such were the difficulties against which the American army were preparing to contend. The reconnoissances, begun on the afternoon of the th, and extending to the morning of the th, though executed with great skill and coolness, under the repeated fire of the enemy, could obtain no information beyond what could be gathered of the works not masked by the buildings of the city. Within the city, the character of the defences remained unknown, until gradually ascertained, with great loss of life, after the assault had actually commenced. On the morning of the th the troops were ordered under arms. At ten o'clock A. M., the reconnoitring parties, one of which, under Major Mansfield, had observed the western approaches, the other, under Captain Williams, the eastern, returned and reported to the General-in-Chief the result of their observations. The possibility of reaching the western approaches of the city being ascertained by Major Mansfield, the Second Division, under Brigadier-General Worth, was directed to turn the enemy's position by making a wide sweep to the right of the Marin road ; and, after joining the Saltillo road, to storm, if practicable, the detached works in that quarter. Accordingly, at two o'clock P. M., the Second Division, reinforced by Hays's regiment of mounted Texans and McCullough's and Gillespie's companies of rangers, took up its line of march ; while, in order to divert the enemy, whose attention had been already drawn to the movement, the First Division, under Brigadier-General Twiggs, and the field division of volunteers, under Major-General butler, were ordered to form in line of battle upon the plain to the east of the city, and threaten the formidable redoubts in front. They remained in position until dark. During the afternoon, a battery was commenced for the mortar and two -pound howitzers, with the view of opening a fire upon the city the following morning, during the attack by General Worth's column. The infantry and the st Kentucky regiment covered the erection of the battery during the night. The remainder of the troops were withdrawn, after dark, to their camp at Walnut Springs. In the mean time, General Worth had succeeded, with great difficulty, in gaining the vicinity of the Saltillo road, and at six o'clock P. M. the division was halted for the night, just without range of the battery upon Independence Hill and that of the Bishop's Palace, about midway of the same slope. Nearly opposite, on the other side of the Arroya Topa, were the forts of Federation and Soldada. These latter heights General Worth determined to carry by assault, the following morning, and despatched an express to the General-in-Chief, informing him of his intention, and requesting that a strong diversion might be made in his favour on the eastern side of the city. This had already been determined upon by General Taylor, and was promptly responded to by him. Early on the morning of the st, the First and Volunteer LIIreo —Z SUZILI &LI MUD LAMM •	rn Divisions were ordered under arms, and, supported by the light artillery, marched towards the city. The d dragoons, under Lieutenant-Colonel May, and Colonel Woods's regiment of Texan cavalry, were thrown to the right, to support General Worth, and make an impression upon the upper part of the town. The loud reports of artillery and small arms to the west of the city, proved the contest in that direction already begun. The mortar, under Captain Ramsey, and the howitzers, under Captain Webster, now opened from the east upon the citadel and town, and the main battle commenced. A portion of the First Division, under the command of Colonel Garland, and consisting of the st and d regiments of infantry and the Baltimore battalion, supported by Bragg's and Ridgely's batteries, was ordered to make a strong demonstration upon the lower part of the town, and carry, if possible, one of the redoubts. Major Mansfield and Captain Williams, topographical engineers, accompanied the column, and the most favourable points of attack were to be indicated by Major Mansfield. The column was accordingly formed, beyond reach of the guns of the enemy, when it received directions to move forward and attack battery No. , in advance of the north-east corner of the city. Major Mansfield, the chief engineer officer, covered by skirmishers, had already succeeded in reaching the suburbs. The remainder of the column followed, and although subjected, for a distance of five hundred yards across the plain, to the fire from battery No. , and a severe cross-fire from the citadel, it dashed impetuously towards the city, passed the batteries in front, and entered the streets. In an instant, without note or warning, a masked battery opened its deadly fire ; and from the tops of houses, from the corners of streets, from windows, and barricades, poured down one continuous storm of bullets. Without shelter; in a narrow street ; exposed to the enemy in every direction, without the possibility of effectually returning his fire — officers and men fell rapidly. Major Barbour, the first officer who 'fell, was killed instantly by an escopet ball passing through his heart. The assault at this point was hopeless ; so the column retired into the next street, under cover of the walls and houses. Here were brought the wounded, the dying, and the dead. The men still pressed on, encouraged by Major Mansfield, who, though wounded, with indomitable courage led them forward, and pointed out places of attack. At the head of the 'Baltimore battalion, here was seen the gallant Colonel Watson, cheering on his men with the courage of a veteran commander. When the stoutest hearts quailed amid the iron tempest poured upon them, dismounting from his horse he still pressed on, though followed by but few of his men. His horse was soon struck by a shot, and fell dead, and shortly after the colonel himself received a ball, which severed the jugular vein and killed him instantly. Bragg's battery now dashed up, but could make no impression upon the barricades. The firing increased : artillery and small-arms, hurling a storm of grape, canister, and bullets, at all imaginable angles, literally swept the streets. To have remained any longer, hemined in by batteries and barricades and superior numbers of the enemy, would have entailed a still more terrible loss of life, without any corresponding prospect of success. The command was therefore withdrawn, for the purpose of seeking a more favourable point of attack.• During this time, Captain Backus, of the st infantry, with a mixed command, had possessed himself of a shed attached to a tannery. This shed faced the gorge of battery No. , at a distance of a hundred and twenty yards, and from behind the low parapets surmounting its roof the Americans poured a deadly and incessant fire into the battery. Learning, however, that Colonel Garland's command, unable •	Cantain Henry's Camnaiffn Sketches. COL. WILLIAM II. WATSON. any longer to maintain itself within the city, was in the act of withdrawing, Captain Backus also prepared to retire. At this moment the guns of all the batteries poured out a stream of fire upon two companies of the th infantry, advancing across the plain to join their comrades within the city. One-third of their number fell under this galling fire, among them the gallant Lieutenants Graham, Hoskins, and Woods. Captain Backus now determined to maintain his position at all hazards, and commenced an avenging fire upon the battery No. , by which many of its defenders were killed, and the remainder considerably shaken. As soon as the heavy firing within the city indicated that Colonel Garland's command had met the enemy in force, General Taylor despatched the Volunteer Division, under Major-General Butler, to his support. The general himself, with the st Ohio regiment, entered the town to the right, leaving Colonel Ormsby, with the Kentucky regiment, to protect the batteries. The brigade of General Quitman, consisting of the Mississippi and Tennessee regiments, formed in front of redoubt No. , and marched directly upon it, almost immediately in rear of the two companies of the th infantry, which had been so fearfully cut up. As soon as the brigade approached near enough for a dash at the work, the two regiments, stimulated by a generous rivalry, strove with each other which should be first within the work. The Mexicans, already staggered by the galling fire in rear, and now threatened in front by the impetuous advance of the determined brigade, precipitately retreated from the work, so that when the stormers poured like a resistless tide through the embrasures, and over the walls, but few of the enemy remained. These were quickly dispersed, leaving the battery, so long a source of terrible annoyance, with all its cannon and ammunition, in the hands of the daring victors. The Mississippians entered in front, Lieut. Colonel McClung being the first to mount the parapet. He fell wounded immediately after ; and, simultaneously with his fall, the Tennessee regiment carried the left, and flung their colours to the breeze. The cannon of battery No. was instantly turned upon No. , a redoubt which, from the constant and fearful activity of its fire, had been named El Diablo, and loosely translated by the troops, ,c The Devil's Own." Captain Ridgely, who in, the commencement of the action had annoyed the enemy with a section of his battery, directed one of the 's of the fort against the enemy with great effect, until the ammunition gave out. After that he advanced against the enemy's breastworks with his own battery, but unable to accomplish anything, returned again to the work taken from the enemy. While this heroic achievement was in the act of accomplishment, Butler entered the city.to the right. Coming up shortly after with the shattered remains of Garland's noble column, General Butler was advised by Major. Mansfield of the impracticability of attempting an assault in that direction. The two commands accordingly fell back, but they had scarcely reached the plain when the General-in-Chief, having learned the fall of the first battery, ordered the First Division immediately to return and hold possession of the captured work, while General Butler, with the Ohio regiment, marching to the left, should enter the city in the direction of El Diablo, and attempt to carry it by storm. The regiment accordingly advanced across the plain, and soon came under a galling fire from El Diablo, and from two batteries on the right. On approaching nearer, a terrible fire of musketry was opened upon it from troops in rear of the redoubt, and so sheltered as to be perfectly secure from attack. At this juncture, General Butler and Colonel Mitchell both fell severely wounded ; and, as the redoubt was found to be protected in front by a deep ditch, and in rear by masses of infantry, while its flank sin defended by a high stone wall, the column was reluctant] ordered to fall back. No sooner was this movement observe than the Mexican cavalry, hovering under the guns of the citade made a sudden dash at the regiment. The charge was succes fully repulsed. The lancers, however, soon returned, strong] reinforced, when Bragg's battery hastened up to the support c the regiment, and by a series of rapid discharges, which did gred execution, forced the enemy to retreat in disorder. During these operations on the left, Colonel Garland, wit parts of the st, d, and th regiments, and of the Baltimore bat talion, while remaining under cover of the captured battery, WE ordered again into the city, for the purpose of carrying, if posy ble, a battery supposed to be but a few streets beyond. N sooner had the column left its shelter, than the terrible fire o artillery and small-arms recommenced. Covering themselves a much as possible, the men advanced from street to street steadil and in good order. After moving cautiously along for some distance, and crossin, exposed points whenever the enemy had momentarily exhauste his fire, the column suddenly found itself confronted by the ttte du-pant of Puente de Purisima. An awful fire now burst upoi them, and after attempting to turn the work by breaking throng] the walls of houses, and crossing gardens and yards, they found their progress arrested by the impassable character of the stream the opposite bank of which was lined with masses of the enemy whose force at the bridge was at least a thousand strong. Th attacking column, amounting to only a hundred and fifty men after forcing its way thus far, finding every street barricaded, and incessant firing still kept up from every point that offered cove to an enemy, abandoned all further effort to proceed, and ono more fell back to the captured battery, with the loss of many of its bravest officers and men. This closed the engagement on the st. The day was now fast drawing to a close ; the First Division, reinforced by one battalion of the st Kentucky regiment, was ordered to hold possession of the battery during the night, while the remainder of the troops, weary and dispirited, returned to the camp at Walnut Springs. On the western side of the city, the column under General Worth had been more fortunate. Early on the morning of the st, the column recommenced its march for the Saltillo road. At six o'clock A. M., the advance consisted of Hays's regiment of Texans and the light companies of the First Brigade, under Captain C. F. Smith. These, while sweeping round the base of the mountain near the hacienda of San Jeronimo, came suddenly upon a strong force of cavalry and infantry, supported by a second body of cavalry in the cornfields beyond. The two foremost companies of rangers, under McCullough and Acklen, immediately dismounted and threw themselves under cover of a fence to the left of the road. The lancers now dashed forward with the utmost impetuosity, the daring gallantry of their colonel rendering him conspicuous above all others. As they swept past, the rifles of the Texans and a fire of musketry from the skirmishers under Smith and Scott, told with murderous effect upon their ranks, while two companies of the th regiment, and a part of the mounted rangers, under Captain Walker, dashed in amongst them and engaged them hand to hand. Finding their comrades thus severely handled, the lancers in reserve now galloped rapidly up to their support. In one minute Duncan and McCall's batteries were unlimbered, and poured a destructive fire upon the enemy over the heads of our own troops. Thus assailed in front by infantry and cavalry, on their flank by the terrible fire of skirmishers and rangers, and in rear by Duncan's and McCall's artillery, the lancers faltered, and within fifteen minutes their imposing array was broken into fragments, and fell back to the Saltillo road, with the loss of one hundred men killed and wounded ; among the former of whom was their brave colonel; Don Juan N. Najera, whose heroic conduct throughout the whole of the conflict won the unqualified admiration of all who witnessed it. The fugitives were promptly pursued, and the column moving forward under the fire of the guns from Federacion and Soldada, secured the gorge where all the debouches from Monterey unite, and thus cut off not only the retreating cavalry, but all other rein. forcements from entering the city in that direction.* General Worth now turned his attention to the capture of Fort Federacion and Soldada, situated on twin heights to the souti of the Topa. The occupation of these was necessary, ultimately; as commanding the city, and immediately, as restoring the communication with head-quarters, which had been broken by sending troops to occupy the Saltillo road. By noon his plans were arranged. It was decided that the battery on Federacion Hill should be the first attacked. A storming-party was accordingly organized, under Captain C. F. Smith. It consisted of three hundred men, one half regulars, the other half Texans, and wal ordered to cross the Arroyo Topa at a point beyond the reach of the enemy's guns, and commence the assault immediately Shortly afterwards, Captain Miles, with the th infantry, wal ordered to support the stormers. This reinforcement moved in E direct line, crossed the Topa under the fire of the enemy, and finding the forces of the enemy largely increasing, Brigadier. General Smith, with the th regiment and Blanchard's Louisia• nians, was also ordered to cross the river, co-operate with, and assume command of the storming columns. Discovering on his approach the practicability of carrying the Soldada simultaneously with Fort Federacion, Smith movec Worth's Official Report. with the th and th regiments and Blanchard's company, obliquely up the hill in the direction of the former work. During this movement the stormers, under Captain C. F. Smith, clambered up the height, and under a severe fire of artillery and musketry, swarmed over the walls, drove the enemy from the work with rifle and bayonet, turned the gun upon the opposite fort, and then leaving a small detachment to hold possession, dashed over the hill to the support of their comrades, now nearly up with Fort Soldada. As soon as this heroic rivalry was observed, the th and th pressed on with accelerated speed, while side by side the Louisianians and rangers also contested the honour of first entering the work. Under a fire of grape and heavy discharges of small-arms, the mixed commands struggled up the ascent with unwavering gallantry, driving in the enemy's skirmishers before them. In the course of a few minutes the fort was abandoned by its dismayed garrison, and the colours of the United States planted in triumph upon the walls. Captain Gillespie, of the Texan mounted volunteers, was the first to mount the parapet and enter the work. The forts were now garrisoned by detachments of the victors, Captain Smith retaining possession of the first, Captain Miles of the last fort taken ; and this being done, the gallant division on both sides of the Arroyo Topa having tasted no food for thirty-six hours, was rested and refreshed preparatory to assaulting the opposite heights on the following morning. The enemy, from the Bishop's Palace, commenced a fire of round-shot and shell upon the th infantry in Fort Soldada, which was returned by the captured gun, under Lieutenant Dana. Independence Hill is seven or eight hundred feet high, and almost inaccessible on account of its perpendicularity, its rocky surface, and the thick and tangled bushes that cover it. With the Bishop's Palace, which it commands and overlooks, distant regarded as the key to Monterey on the western side. It was defended by artillery, and in anticipation of an attack, strengthened by a heavy detachment thrown forward from the Bishop's Palace. Early on the morning of the d, the column was appointed tc storm the Forts of Independencia and the Bishop's Palace. . consisted orthree companies of the th infantry, three companies of the d and th artillery, and two hundred dismounted Texans, under Hays and Walker; all under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Childs. This column moved at three o'clock A. M., recrossed the river, and, favoured by mist and darkness, clambered up the steep ascent, unobserved by the enemy, until gained within a hundred yards of the crest. Here the advanced pickets were first discovered, and a skirmishing fire commenced but so great was the panic, that when the regulars and Texans approached within a few yards of the crest of the hill, and pouring in a heavy fire upon the startled enemy, dashed forward wit' rifles and bayonets, the work was precipitately abandoned, During the ascent of the hill, two gallant spirits fell, Captain Gil. lespie and Herman S. Thomas of the rangers, the former of Texas, the latter of Harford county, Maryland. The th regi. ment, under Major Scott, and Blanchard's Louisianians no crossed the river to aid the assault of Childs upon the Bishop': Palace. A -pound howitzer was hauled bodily up the steel ascent of Independencia, and being placed in battery, openec upon the Palace and its outworks with decided effect. Uncle] cover of this fire, the column moved down the hill in the directior of the enemy's last remaining defence. Here the Mexican genera had concentrated a large body of troops, and rendered desperate by the loss of Independencia, he attempted a formidable sorti from the Palace, for the purpose of recovering it. This sortie was, however, so effectually repulsed, that tht troops soon gave way under the front and flank fires of tht stormers, and being closely pursued, some fled past the Palacf in the direction of the city, while others, seeking the protection of the works, were followed so rapidly, that fugitives and pursuers entered them together. A brief, spirited, but unavailing resistance then ensued. In a few minutes, amidst the sharp crack of the deadly Texan rifles—the clash of swords, the dull heavy sound of clubbed muskets, mixed up with shouts and yells and imprecations—the earnest cries of supplicating men and the groans of the wounded—the Mexican flag was hauled down, and the last outwork of the enemy was forcibly wrested from him. The guns of the Palace, together with Duncan's and McCall's batteries, which came up at a gallop, were now directed upon the retreating masses of the enemy with terrible effect. This ended the labours of the d. The division was now concentrated about the Palace, and upon the morning of the d the assault upon the city commenced. ce Two columns of attack were organized, to move along the two principal streets in the direction of the great Plaza, composed of light troops, slightly extended, with orders to mask the men whenever practicable, avoid those points swept by the enemy's artillery, to press on to the first Plaza (Capella), get hold of the end of the streets beyond, then enter the buildings, .and, by means of picks and bars, break through the longitudinal section of the walls, work from house to house, and ascending to the roofs, to place themselves upon the same, breast-high with the enemy." Such were the graphic directions given by General Worth for the assault of the city from the west. The plan was eminently successful. By dark the men had worked their way through walls and squares, until they had reached to within one square of the Great Plaza, carried a large building commanding the principal defences of the enemy, and during the night and succeeding morning, placed two howitzers and a -pounder in battery upon its roof. A -inch mortar was also brought into the smaller square (Capella), and at sunset opened upon the main Plaza. In the mean time, on the eastern side of tile city, the severe check received on the st had also been amply redeemed. During the d but little was attempted beyond a strong demonstration to favour the operations of General Worth ; but when the morning of the d arrived, the successes of Worth's column offered an opportunity of renewing the assault, under advantages not heretofore enjoyed. The enemy, too, evidently staggered by the pertinacity with which the storm was carried on, had deserted the battery of El Diablo, during the night of the d, and concentrated the main body of his forces nearer the heart of the city. Immediately this was made known to the General-in-Chief, the Mississippi and Tennessee regiments were ordered to take possession of the abandoned works. The enemy, however, holding some strong buildings close by, and a triangular work some two hundred yards off, still kept up an annoying fire through the gorge of El Diablo. The General-in-Chief now arriving in the city, directed Quit-man's brigade to move in, and force the annoying positions. It was immediately advanced, and a sharp firing once more swept the streets. Bragg's battery was also ordered up, supported by the d infantry. When within range of the guns of the citadel, the battery crossed the field of fire at full gallop, and escaped injury. The infantry and battery now engaged the enemy, and drove him back with repeated discharges. While the assault was thus warmly urged by the Mississippi and Tennessee regiments, the dismounted Texans, under Henderson, entered the city, and the . united commands, by breaking into houses, and crashing through walls, fought the enemy in his own manner, and in the midst of his own defences, until the defenders were forced resolutely back into the very heart of derson were withdrawn to the captured works, until such time a: the General-in-Chief could concert with General Worth a combined attack upon the last remaining defences. This attack had been already anticipated by the latter officer ; so that by dusk of the d the respective commands, moving from east and west almost simultaneously, had each succeeded, though unknown to each other, in reaching to within one square of the principal Plaza. A heavy mortar had been placed in battery, and General Worth was ready to open upon the enemy in the morning with shell. The next morning, while preparations were being made to renew the attack, General Ampudia despatched a flag of truce to General Taylor, expressing a desire to negotiate for a surrender of the city. The assault was accordingly suspended on both sides of the city, and commissioners having been appointed to confer with each other, the following basis of capitulation was at length agreed upon :— " Terms of the Capitulation of the city of Monterey, the capital of Nuevo Leon, agreed upon by the undersigned commissioners, to wit : General Worth, of the United States Army, General Henderson, of the Texan volunteers, and Colonel Davis, of the Mississippi riflemen, on the part of Major-General Taylor, commanding-in-chief the United States forces ; and General Requena and General Ortego, of the Army of Mexico, and Senor Manuel M. Llano, Governor of Nuevo Leon, on the part of Senor General Don Pedro Ampudia, commanding-in-chief the Army of the North of Mexico. cc Art. . As the legitimate result of the operations before the place, and the present position of the contending armies, it is agreed that the city, the fortifications, cannon, the munitions of war, and all other public property, with the under-mentioned exceptions, be surrendered to the commanding-general of the United States forces now at Monterey.. ccArt. . That the Mexican forces be allowed to retain the following arms, to wit : The commissioned officers their sidearms ; the infantry their arms and accoutrements ; the cavalry their arms and accoutrements ; the artillery one field-battery, not cc Art. . That the Mexican armed force retire within seven days from this date beyond the line formed by the pass of the Rinconada, the city of Linares, and San Fernando de Pusos. cg Art. . That the citadel of Monterey be evacuated by the Mexican and occupied by the American forces to-morrow morning at ten o'clock. cc Art. . To avoid collisions, and for mutual convenience, that the troops of the United States will not occupy the city until the Mexican forces have withdrawn, except for hospital and storage purposes. c, Art. . That the forces of the United States will not advance beyond the line specified in the third article before the expiration of eight weeks, or until the orders of the respective governments can be received. it Art. . That the public property to be delivered shall be turned over and received by officers appointed by the commanding-generals of the two armies. cc Art. . That all doubts, as to the meaning of any of the preceding articles, shall be solved by an equitable construction, and on principles of liberality to the retiring army. cc Art. . That the Mexican flag, when struck at the citadel, may be saluted by its own battery. W. J. WORTH, Brig.-Gen. U. S. A. J. PINICNEY HENDERSON, Major-Gen. commanding Texan volunteers. JEFFERSON DAVIS, Col. .Mississippi Riflemen J. M. ORTEGA. T. REQUENA. MANUEL M. LLANO. Approved PEDRO AMPUDIA. Z. TAYLOR,