Major-Gen. U. S. A. commanding. CHAPTER XII. Evacuation of Monterey—Policy of the Capitulation—Views of the Administration—General Taylor's letter—Retrospect of Mexican affairs—Elevation of Paredes--Pronunciamento in favour of Santa Anna—His arrival at Vera Crux—Permission to pass through the Fleet—Termination of the Armistice—Projected Expedition against Tamaulipas—Opinions of General Taylor relative to the Prosecution of the War—Saltillo occupied by the American troops—Protest of the Governor of Coahuila—Advance to Agua Nueva-,General Wool's Expedition against Chihuahua—Arrival of Wool's column at Monclova--Marches to ParraaTampico occupied—General Taylor marches upon Victoria—Reconnoissances towards Labradorea and Linares—Arrival of General Scott in Mexico—Withdrawal of troops from General Taylor—Orders consequent thereon—Santa Anna's March from San Luis Potosi against General Taylor—Ruse of General Taylor—Forces of Santa Anna—Angostura—February --Summons of Santa Anna to General Taylor to surrender—Taylor's Reply—Battle of Buena Vista--Skirmishes—Result of the Action. AT ten o'clock on the th, pursuant to the articles of' capitulation, the ceremony of the surrender took place. General Worth, who by his labours had contributed so largely to the reduction of the place, was appointed to see the execution of the stipulations. Two companies of each regiment in the second division, with a section of each battery, the whole under the immediate command of Colonel Persifer F. Smith, were appointed to take possession of the citadel. These troops were drawn up on the road leading to the citadel, the Texans on one side, and the regulars on the other, while the imposing display was graced by the presence of General Taylor and staff, and all the principal officers of the army in splendid military costume. With a parting salute from the shrill bugle and the booming cannon, the Aztec eagle fluttered down from its airy height, while the cc stars and stripes" floated upward on the gentle breeze, and unfolded from the citadel amid the strains of martial music and the united cheers of the victorious troops. From the other eminences, in like manner, the Mexican colours disappeared, and were replaced by the national ensign of the conquerors. The Mexicans then marched out from the citadel, between the two lines of the Americans, and the latter moved into the place they had quitted. The first division of the enemy marched out of the city on the th, the second on the th, and the remainder on the th. General Ampudia accompanied the second division and proceeded with his troops to Saltillo. He wished to fortify the place, but since he had been unable to defend Monterey, a position having much greater advantages, the inhabitants refused their consent, whereupon he retired to San Luis Potosi, which became, shortly after, the head-quarters of the northern army. He, himself, soon became a prisoner in the castle of Perote, by order of Santa Anna, who had returned from exile, as will hereafter be related. The terms of the capitulation, though favourable to the Mexicans, displayed not merely an exalted humanity on the part of General Taylor, but great military prudence, and sound policy. A brief consideration of the circumstances will serve to show this view of the capitulation to be correct. Without siege-artillery, or intrenching tools, General Taylor could not have carried the citadel without great loss to his troops, who were less than one-half the forces of the enemy. If he had carried the citadel, he could not have prevented the escape of the enemy, for he had not sufficient troops to invest the city ; not had he means of transportation, so that he could have pursued him after he had compelled him to evacuate the city. If beaten, the Mexican general could still have retired with his troops, small-arms, and ammunition. How much better and wiser was it in General Taylor, to gain, without sacrificing the lives of his troops, all the advantages which could have been ultimately obtained, with this additional was much greater than if he had retired, as he could otherwise have done, without the consent of the Americans. The government at Washington, however, and a small portion of the administration party, did not approve of the terms of the capitulation, and especially the armistice. Accordingly, General Taylor was instructed by the President le to give the required notice, that the armistice was to cease at once, and that each party was at liberty to resume and prosecute hostilities without restriction." The reply of the general to this order, addressed to the Adjutant-General at Washington, is so full and satisfactory upon these points, that we insert it entire :— " CANT NEAR MONTEREY, November , . c SIR : In reply to so much of the communication of the Secretary of War, as relates to the reasons which induced the convention resulting in the capitulation of Monterey, I have the honour to submit the following remarks. tc The convention presents two distinct points : First, the permission granted the Mexican army to retire with their arms, &c. Secondly, the temporary cessation of hostilities for the term of eight weeks. I shall remark on these in order. ci The force with which I marched on Monterey was limited, by causes beyond my control, to about six thousand men. With this force, as every military man must admit, who has seen the ground, it was entirely impossible to invest Monterey so closely as to prevent the escape of the garrison. Although the main communication with the interior was in our possession, yet one route was open to the Mexicans throughout the operations, and could not be closed, as were also other minor tracks and passes through the mountains. Had we, therefore, insisted on more rigorous terms than those granted, the result would have been the escape of the body of the Mexican force, with the destruction of its artillery and magazines, our only advantage being the capture of a few prisoners of war, at the expense of valuable lives and much damage to the city. The consideration of humanity was present to my mind during the conference which led to the convention, and outweighed, in my judgment, the doubtful advantages to be gained by a resumption of the attack upon the town. This conclusion has been fully confirmed by an inspection of the enemy's position and means, since the surrender. It was discovered that his principal magazine, containing an immense amount of powder, was in the Cathedral, completely exposed to our shells from two directions. The explosion of this mass of powder, which must have ultimately resulted from a continuance of the bombardment, would have been infinitely disastrous, involving the destruction not only of Mexican troops, but of non-combatants, and even our own people, had we pressed the attack. ce In regard to the temporary cessation of hostilities, the fact that we are not at this moment, within eleven days of the termination of the period fixed by the convention, prepared to move forward in force, is a sufficient explanation of the military reasons which dictated this suspension of arms. It paralyzed the enemy during a period when, from the want of necessary means, we could not possibly move. I desire distinctly to state, and to call the attention of the authorities to the fact, that with all diligence in breaking mules and setting up wagons, the first wagons in addition to our original train from Corpus Christi (and but one hundred and twenty-five in number), reached my head-quarters on the same day with the secretary's communication of October th, viz : the d instant. At the date of the surrender of Monterey, our force had not more than ten days' rations, and even now, with all our endeavours, we have not more than twenty-five. THE TASK OF FIGHTING AND BEATING THE ENEMY IS AMONG THE LEAST DIFFICULT THAT WE ENCOUNTER—the great question of supplies necessarily controls all the operations in a country like this. At the date of the convention, I could not of course have foreseen that the Department would direct an important detachment from my command without consulting me, or without waiting the result of the main operation under my orders. cc I have touched the prominent military points involved in the convention of Monterey. There were other considerations which weighed with the commissioners in framing, and with myself in approving the articles of the convention. In the conference with General Ampudia, I was distinctly told by him that he had invited it to spare the further effusion of blood, and because General Santa Anna had declared himself favourable to peace. I knew that our government had made propositions to that of Mexico to negotiate, and I deemed that the change of government in that country since my instructions, fully warranted me in entertaining considerations of policy. My grand motive in moving forward with very limited supplies had been to increase the inducements of the Mexican government to negotiate for peace. Whatever may be the actual views or disposition of the Mexican rulers, or of General Santa Anna, it is not unknown to the government that I had the very best reason for believing the statement of General Ampudia to be true. It was my opinion at the time of the convention, and it his not been changed, that the liberal treatment of the Mexican army, and the suspension of arms, would exert none but a favourable influence in our behalf. cc The result of the entire operation has been to throw the Mexican army back more than three hundred miles, to the city of San Luis Potosi, and to open the country to us, as far as we choose to penetrate it, up to the same point. <c It has been my purpose in this communication, not so much to defend the convention from the censure which I deeply regret to find implied in the Secretary's letter, as to show that it was not adopted without cogent reasons, most of which occur of themselves to the minds of all who are acquainted with the condition of things here. To that end I beg that it may be laid before the General-in-chief and Secretary of War. gc I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Maj. Gen. U. S. A., commanding. The Adjutant-General of the Army, Washington, D. C." An extract from a letter of General Taylor's, of the date of November th, still further shows that the armistice was of no disadvantage, because being without proper transportation he was not then in a condition to move further into the enemy's country. ( In regard to the armistice, which would have expired by limitation in a few days, we lost nothing by it, as we could not move even now, had the enemy continued to occupy Saltillo ; for, strange to say, the first wagon which has reached me since the declaration of war was on the d instant, the same day on which I received from Washington an acknowledgment of my despatch announcing the taking of Monterey ; and then I received only one hundred and twenty-five, so that I have been, since May last, completely crippled, and am still so, for want of transportation. After raking and scraping the country for miles around Camargo, collecting every pack-mule and other means of transportation, I could bring here only eighty thousand rations (fifteen days' supply), with a moderate supply of ordnance, ammunition, &c., to do which, all the corps had to leave behind a portion of their camp equipage necessary for their comfort, and in some instances, among the volunteers, their personal baggage. I moved in such a way, and with such limited means, that, had I not succeeded, I should no doubt have been severely reprimanded, if nothing worse. I did so to sustain the administration." _.-' We will now turn our attention for a moment to the affairs of Mexico. In January, Paredes, by a revolution which had been jointly projected by the army and clergy, gained the executive chair on the downfall of Herrera. Instead of conciliating discordant parties by moderation and gentle measures, he changed both the letter and the spirit of the constitution acknowledged by his predecessors, abridged the privileges of the people, trampled upon the press, and arrogated to himself a power nearly absolute. In the embarrassed state of the treasury he appealed to the priesthood for alienation of a part of the church fund, which disaffected in a measure a part of that influential body from him. The popular discontent was fomented by factious chiefs, until it broke out into open rebellion. There was a defection, not only of military bodies, but of cities, and provinces. Local governments were overthrown, and the central power assailed. Vera Cruz pronounced in favour of Santa Anna on the st of July, and the capital, three days afterwards, followed the movement. A provisional government was declared, with General de Salas and other military chiefs at its head, which denounced all opposition to them as traitorous, and invited the return of all political exiles, especially Santa Anna, desiring him to assume the command of all the forces raised against the army of the United States of the North. ' A short conflict took place between the revolutionists and the troops of Paredes, when the latter abandoned his power and fled from the city. Thus recalled by his countrymen, Santa Anna sailed from Cuba, and arrived at Vera Cruz on the th of August, passing without molestation through the United States' squadron then blockading the place. This was done by express permission of the President of the United States, in the vain expectation that Santa Anna, so coming into power, would favour negotiations for peace. Instead of this, however, after a triumphal entry into the city of Mexico on the th of September, he united opposing factions, and with singular energy and ability prepared to prosecute the war against the invaders with the utmost vigour. So far from answering the expectations of President Polk, Santa Anna promptly replied to General Taylor, when inviting propositions fa peace some time after :	You ought to discard every idea of peace while a single North American treads in arms the territory of this republic, or while hostile squadrons remain in front of he: ports." With these views and feelings, Santa Anna hastened tc San Luis Potosi, the head-quarters of the northern army, and or the th of October, commenced to supply and equip the nev levies for vigorous operations against the invaders of his country. For this end he not merely exerted his talents, but contribute( much of his private fortune, and succeeded in raising and orga. nizing a large and powerful army. While General Taylor remained at Monterey, he received front Washington a letter containing instructions to terminate flu armistice, and accordingly promptly notified Santa Anna tha it would cease on the th of November. ,By a previous lette: from the Secretary of War, General Taylor had been informed of the plan of the government in the prosecution of the war, am that it contemplated taking ti possession of the department ol Tamaulipas, or some of the principal places in it," by mean of a column advanced from the Rio Grande, which should have communication with the ships then in the gulf, and derive assist. ance from them. Tampico was particularly specified as prominent point to be occupied by the American troops ; am Mp ajor-General Patterson was named by the Secretary as filo choice of the government to command the expedition, assiste( by Brigadier-Generals Pillow and Shields. A simultaneou movement upon San Luis Potosi was also suggested. In reply to the letter of the Secretary, General Taylor showec the impracticability of moving upon San Luis Potosi with the forces and means of transportation at his disposal ; but advise( holding Monterey, with the places already in his possession, witl advances pushed forward to occupy Saltillo, and detachments a Monclova, Linares, Victoria, and Tampico. He pointed to Ver Cruz or Alvarado as the proper base of operations against the city of Mexico, and advised the landing there of twenty-five thousand men, ten thousand to be regulars, if the government desired to strike a decisive blow at the power of Mexico. General Taylor considered Saltillo as a necessary outpost of the main body of his army at Monterey, because it covered the great defile leading from the low country to the table-land, and controlled the fertile region around Parras, while, as the capital of Coahuila, its occupation would be important in a political point of view. Accordingly, on the th of November, a division of the army under General Worth, consisting of two regiments of infantry, one company of volunteers, a field-battery of eight pieces, and eight companies of artillery, marched from Monterey to Saltillo. On the next day, General Taylor followed Worth's division, accompanied by two squadrons of dragoons. When he passed the boundary of the state of Coahuila, on his way to Saltillo, the governor of the state, Jose Marie de Aguirre, sent him a written protest, in which he remonstrated against the march of the Americans, and the usurpation of the territory, ci with all the outrages and damages likely to accrue to the defenceless inhabitanti." Without replying to this manifesto, General Taylor proceeded on to Saltillo, which he reached on the th, and encamped with his dragoons a little beyond the city. General Worth occupied the plaza. Reconnoissances were now ordered into the interior for about twenty-five miles, and the two principal routes in this direction covered by troops. The one towards San Luis Potosi was covered by General Worth's command, the other, towards Parras, through a fertile country, by the tc Army of the Centre" under General Wool, which had arrived at Monclova on the th of October, and was now ordered by General Taylor to move upon Parras. We will now bestow attention upon this division of the forces invading Mexico. Immediately after the passage of the act of May th, , recognising war between the republics, General Wool was ordered to muster into service the volunteers of Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Mississippi. After organizing and sending to the seat of war about ten thousand men to reinforce General Taylor, he was ordered with the remainder to San Antonio de Bexar, where Colonel Harney of the d dragoons was stationed with a small force of regular cavalry, and some companies of Texan volunteers. During the month of August all the regiments and detachments arrived at the place of rendezvous, and were employed some weeks in learning the different military evolutions before taking the field. The Central Division, under General Wool, consisted of four companies of the d dragoons, Colonel Harney ; one company of the th artillery, Captain Washington, with eight pieces, two -pounders, and the remainder -pounders ; battalion of th infantry, Major Bonneville; Colonel Yell's regiment, Arkansas mounted volunteers ; st Illinois infantry, Colonel Hardin ; d Illinois, Colonel Bissell; and one company of Kentucky cavalry, and one of Texan volunteers. Total strength, ,. The advance of the army of the centre, under Colonel Harney, left San Antonio on the th of September, and was followed by the head-quarters on the th. Colonel Hardin, with the st Illinois regiment, marched on the d of October ; and the rear, under Colonel Churchill, followed some days after, comprising the d Illinois, and various other detachments. From San Antonio, their route lay westward to Presidio, where they crossed the Rio Grande, through a country diversified by prairies, sandy deserts, and forests of chaparral. From Presidio, General Wool led his army through Nava and San Fernando to Santa Rosa, taking peaceable possession of the towns upon his route. On arriving at the latter place, he found his further march upon the city of Chihuahua, his ultimate destination, prevented by the impassable peaks of the Sierra Gorda. He turned aside, therefore, to Monclova, the ancient capital of Chihuahua, from which he reported to General Taylor at Monterey, who directed him to remain where he was, until ordered otherwise. General Wool, therefore, remained at Monclova until after the occupation of Saltillo, when he moved forward to Parras, and occupied the Alameda. At both these places he and his troops were treated with great kindness by the inhabitants. Having thus disposed his troops so that in case of further operations they could be thrown upon Zacatecas, Durango, or San Luis, as occasion might require, General Taylor returned to Monterey on the d of November. On the th of November, Tampico was taken without opposition, by a portion of the Gulf squadron, and was garrisoned by a force under General Shields, consisting of eight companies of artillery, under Lieutenant-Colonel Belton, and a regiment of Alabama volunteers. Immediately after Tampico fell into the hands of the Americans, General Taylor determined to occupy Victoria, the capital of Tamaulipas. Situated at the debouchee of a pass through the mountains, threatening the flank of the Mexican army, should it advance from San Luis Potosi, and with Soto la Marina convenient as a depot, its occupation was considered of great importance. Accordingly, General Taylor ordered General Patterson to march on Victoria, with three regi- ments of volunteers of his division, one of them Tennessee horse, while he himself, with the regular troops under Brigadier- General Twiggs, except those in garrison, and the regiments of General Patterson's division under General Quitman, would proceed to Montemorelos, and, after uniting with the column the d Tennessee regiment, under orders for that place, to effect a junction with Major-General Patterson, before Victoria. When, in prosecution of this plan, General Taylor reached Montemorelos, a despatch arrived from General Worth, in command at Saltillo, with the intelligence, that Santa Anna was about making a rapid movement upon Saltillo, and, after carrying that position, intended to attack Wool's forces at Parras. In consequence of this news, General Taylor ordered the volunteers, under Quitman, reinforced by a field-battery, to continue their march to Victoria, while he returned with Twiggs's division to Monterey, and immediately set out for Saltillo. General Wool, in the mean time, had moved up from Parras to reinforce General Worth ; and Major-General Butler, who was in command at Monterey, advised in like manner of the threatened attack, had proceeded with reinforcements to Saltillo, and assumed command of the forces. On his way to Saltillo, General Taylor learned that Wool's column had joined Worth, and that no demonstration was likely to be made by the Mexican commander; whereupon he considered Twiggs's division as unnecessary, and determined to proceed with it to Victoria, which place he reached on the th of January, where he was met on the same day by Major-General Patterson, with troops from Matamoros. General Quitman had reached the place six days before. Upon his approach, the enemy occupying the town with a force of fifteen hundred cavalry, fell back to Jaumaze, in the direction of the Tula Pass. From Montemorelos, on his way to Victoria, General Taylor despatched a party of engineers, protected by May's squadron of dragoons, to reconnoitre the mountain passes from that to Labradores and Linares, and on their return, ten men of the rear-guard were cut of by the enemy. While proceeding to Victoria, General Taylor learned the arrival of General Scott in Mexico, to assume the command of an expedition against Vera Cruz, with the view of making it the base of a new line of operations, having for their ultimate design the reduction of the Mexican capital. General Taylor had received intimations of this design some time before, and now awaited, at Victoria, despatches from the General-in-chief in relation to it. These arrived on the th of January, and contained a demand for the greater part of his army, embracing nearly all his regulars, with the volunteer divisions of Generals Worth and Patterson, and the brigade of Quitman and Twiggs. The forces of the latter generals were already at Victoria ; the troops, under Worth, marched from Saltillo back to Camargo, and thence to Matamoros, and joined General Scott at the Brazos. On parting with the troops, endeared to him by long and faithful services, the commanding-general gave expression to his feelings in the following orders :- " It is with deep sensibility that the commanding-general finds himself separated from the troops he so long commanded. To those corps, regular and volunteer, who have shared with him the active services of the field, he feels the attachment due to such associations, while to those who are making their first campaign, he must express his regret that he cannot participate with them in its eventful scenes. To all, both officers and men, he extends his heartfelt wishes for their continued success and happiness, confident that their achievements on another theatre will redound to the credit of their country and its arms." After thus withdrawing nearly all his forces, it was the wish of the government, in which General Scott concurred, that General Taylor should withdraw his troops from Saltillo and fall back to Monterey, but as he considered the occupation of the place important for the procuring of supplies, and essential to the due defence of the line he held, he not only continued to hold Saltillo, but advanced with his main force to Agua Nueva, eighteen miles beyond. He deemed this prudent, because the place had a large plain to drill his troops in, and held in observation the road from San Luis, and the different passes in the vicinity; and while there, he would be in position to attack the enemy at a disadvantage after advancing over a barren waste that afforded neither water nor food of any kind. On the d of January, a party of Arkansas and Kentucky cavalry, seventy in number, under Majors Borland and Gaines was surprised and captured at the hacienda of Encarnacion, forty eight miles from Saltillo, by the cavalry under General Minon A party of seventeen of the Kentucky volunteers under Captaii Heady, was also captured on the th of the same month, an the advanced pickets were frequently driven in by the enemy These occurrences, with the frequent rumours of the march d Santa Anna against the American army, disposed General Taylo. I° believe an attack would soon be made. He therefore lef Monterey on the st of January, with a reinforcement of fivc hundred men for General Wool's column, and proceeded to Agua Nueva, on the San Luis road, where he remained encampec until the st of February. Lieutenant-Colonel May, with a strong reconnoitring party consisting of four companies of the st and d dragoons, a section of Washington's battery under Lieutenant O'Brien, and some volunteer cavalry, making an entire force of four hundred mountec men, was sent on the th to Hedionda to ascertain the presence of General Minon, who had been hovering near with his cavalr for some time, and whether the enemy under Santa Anna migh be advancing. At the same time, Major McCullough with party of Texan spies was sent to Encarnacion for the same purpose. On reaching Hedionda in the afternoon, Colonel May sent ou pickets in every direction through the valley in which it wa situated, to gain intelligence of the enemy, and shortly afte saw at the extremity of the valley, near the hacienda of Potosi signal fires lighted on several peaks, and clouds of dust, indicating the march of troops. These clouds of dust appeared to move around the hills in the neighbourhood of Guachuchil, whence hi inferred that Minon's brigade was marching around, to gain position between him and the main army, and thus cut him ofl cin Having to await the return of his pickets, and expecting an attack, he prepared for a defence, by placing bales of cotton at each end of the street running through the rancho. About ten o'clock, by which time the pickets had all returned except one, a deserter from the Mexican army came to Colonel May with the intelligence that General Minon was in the neighbourhood, and that Santa Anna was at Encarnacion that morning with , men, and intended attacking General Taylor the next day at Agua Nueva., Colonel May, knowing the importance of his detachment, which contained all the regular cavalry of the army, immediately left Hedionda, and rejoined the main column under General Taylor by daybreak, having made a march of sixty miles in twenty hours. Contrary to expectation, he did not encounter General Minon on the march. Instead of intersecting the San Luis road at Encantada, as May had expected, Minon continued on to San Antonio, and through the pass of Palomas, in the rear of Saltillo. Major McCullough with his party had proceeded to Encarnacion, and managed to gain a position where he could see the whole force of the enemy, which he estimated at upwards of twenty thousand, with a large proportion of artillery and cavalry. He returned by twelve o'clock on the st, and reported his observations to the commanding.general. The position of the camp at Agua Nueva, though a good one, and possessing many advantages, could easily be turned on either flank. Because of this, and the great disparity of the Mexican and American forces, General Taylor determined to fall back about twelve miles to a place of great natural strength called Angostura, near the hacienda of Buena Vista, and particularly suited to a small army resisting the advance of superior numbers." gc The road [from San Luis Potosi to Saltillo] at this point * General Taylor's Report. becomes a narrow defile, the valley on its right being rendered quite impracticable for artillery by a system of deep and impassable gullies, while on the left a succession of rugged ridges and precipitous ravines extends far back toward the mountain which bounds the valley. The features of the ground were such as nearly to paralyze the artillery and cavalry of the enemy, while his infantry could not derive all the advantage of its numerical superiority." This place had been selected some time before by General Wool, and approved by General Taylor. Besides, the commanding-general believed that by his falling back a day's march, Santa Anna would mistake the movement for a precipitate flight, and urge on his forces, already exhausted by a march of thirty-five miles from Encarnacion to Agua Nueva, over a barren desert that afforded neither water nor food of any kind ; and the Americans would thus be able to engage their enemy under all the disadvantages of a forced march, want of food, and general disarray. On the st, at noon, General Taylor broke up his encampment and fell back to Buena Vista, leaving Colonel Yell, with a part of the Arkansas mounted volunteers, to superintend the removal of the stores. The st Illinois regiment, under Colonel Hardin, was halted at Angostura, where General Taylor intended to give battle ; the main body, under General Wool, encamped a mile and a half in the rear ; so that, instead of passively awaiting the enemy, the troops might feel the moral effect of marching forward to meet him. General Taylor, with May's dragoons, two batteries of the d artillery, under Captains Sherman and Bragg, and the Mississippi rifles, under Colonel Davis, proceeded to Saltillo, to put it in a better state of defence, and prepare for the expected battle. Santa Anna left Encarnacion at noon on the st of February, after mass had been said in front of the several divisions. General Ampudia commanded the advance-guard of four battalions of light infantry. A brigade of artillery of -pounders followed, with a regiment of engineers and their train, and after them a park of the regiment of hussars. Next came the first division of heavy infantry, with five -pounders and their park, under General Lombardini. The second division, with eight -pounders and their park, followed under General Pachecho ; then the divisions of cavalry under General Juvera. Lastly came the remainder of the cannon, the general park and baggage, with a rearguard consisting of a brigade of lancers, under General Andrade, making in the aggregate a force of upwards of twenty thousand men. About midnight on the st, Colonel Yell was reinforced by two companies of the st dragoons, and a part of the Kentucky mounted volunteers ; and immediately after their arrival, the Mexican light infantry, under Ampudia, attacked Colonel Yell's advance piquet, stationed in the pass of Cornero, about five miles south of Agua Nueva. The whole train of wagons was now moved off with speed towards Buena Vista, while the troops remained to destroy the stores that had not yet been removed. In pursuance of an order, the buildings and some stacks of wheat were fired, and the flames filled the whole valley of the Encantada, and illumining the rugged mountain peaks, and flashing back from the glittering appointments of armed men and steeds, produced a picture wonderfully sublime, whose impression was heightened by the rumbling of the wagons in retreat, the random shots of the advanced parties, and the sounds of signal trumpets startling the midnight air. After destroying the stores that remained, the Americans returned to Buena Vista, which they reached about day-break. In the mean time, Santa Anna had put his heavy forces in motion, and emerging at length from the mountain gorge, above Agua Nueva, was surprised to find the forces gone, which he had expected to surprise and cut up. Supposing the American army in full retreat, and intercepted in the rear by Minon's brigade, he hurried forward his exhausted and nearly famished troops, after a meagre repast, and a single draught of water, cheering them with the assurance that they would soon enjoy abundance from the American supplies at Saltillo. In the morning of the d of February, .a day hallowed to every American as the birthday of Washington, General Wool, in the absence of the commanding-general, who had not yet returned from Saltillo, ordered the troops under arms. The banners were unfurled to the breeze amid the inspiring strains of cc Hail Columbia" from the bands, and the talismanic words cc The memory of Washington," passed from corps to corps. The following was the disposition of the troops. Captain Washington, with his battery, was posted so as to command the road at Angostura, supported by the st regiment of Illinois volunteers, under Colonel Hardin, which partly occupied a ridge of land extending from Angostura to the plateau or high table-land, running back to the mountains. The d Illinois volunteers, and a company of Texans, commanded by Colonel Bissell, were on its left, and the d regiment of Kentucky volunteers occupied the crest of a ridge by the roadside. On the extreme left, and near the base of the mountains, was the Arkansas regiment of mounted volunteers, under Colonel Yell, and the Kentucky regiment, under Colonel Marshall. The Indiana volunteer brigade, under General Lane, composed of the d and d regiments, under Colonels Bowles and Lane, the st regiment of Mississippi riflemen, under Colonel Davis, Colonel May's squadron of the d dragoons, Captain Steen's squadron of st dragoons, and the batteries of Sherman and Bragg, constituted the reserve, and were stationed on the ridges in the rear of the right of the plateau. Shortly after the troops were placed in position, General Taylor returned from Saltillo, and riding along the lines, was received with enthusiastic cheers. General Wool also rode along, and inspirited the troops, especially his own column, by brief, yet stirring remarks. In the mean time, a cloud of dust was seen rising over the distant hills, and soon after the enemy's cavalry advance came thundering down the valley of Encantada, and, coming in sight of Washington's battery, sounded a halt with their bugles just out of cannon-range. The advanced squadrons now filed off towards the mountains on the American left, while others came up and formed, till nearly the whole space from the road to the mountains was covered by the serried legions, with all their blazonry• of banners and panoply of armour gleaming in the sun. While the engineers of both armies were busily employed in learning the disposition of the forces of their antagonist, and providing for their own, a white flag advanced from the Mexican front, and its bearer presented the following letter " CAMP AT ENCANTADA, February , . "God and Liberty ! cg You are surrounded by twenty thousand men, and cannot, in any human probability, avoid suffering a rout, and being cut to pieces with your troops ; but as you deserve consideration and particular esteem, I wish to save you from a catastrophe, and for that purpose give you this notice, in order that you may surrender at discretion, under the assurance that you will be treated with the consideration belonging to the Mexican character, to which end you will be granted an hour's time to make up your mind, to commence from the moment when my flag of truce arrives in your camp. gt With this view, I assure you of my particular consideration. ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA. To General Z. TAYLOR, Commanding the forces of the U. S." To this summons General Taylor immediately despatched the U; ri er Qrt °war • II	.)S ---gr. Ntki.	si" ,	rtir • LEGEND. '- -',	PP t'slc(	p A	hy, . A,. WerAftp‘orvo ,.cr, try	. 	" "'P., • • rod. Ii e I) r	. Aga' Seri ot.tr'‘,._mc -	taw L''.:•AA /.	cr, •	Lod,: .,Iffer:, under L razet	Pr, G	I 	, . r tki I eafelp f L en. „„,-:-: r- ••.	• trt•••••^Ils, •^' M	+., 	r, , ?,.,^,Pell	rA.	^-• Iii	flail. a ( . n qr. irtj J,,,r”	f f,.•^ IAN.	•.•	•: 	....	 S. .•	I	le el I PLAN o Iht• E oi. tFNA NISTA rour;, IH , /^ps aeni.	tee. int.ardlu, - Is . P• :EN..^ re ' rt.. nigh • " HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY OF OCCUPATION, Near Buena Vista, February , . (c SIR : In reply to your note of this date, summoning me to surrender my forces at discretion, I beg leave to say that I decline acceding to your request. ci With high respect, I am, sir, your obedient servant, Z. TAYLOR, Major-Gen. U. S. A. commanding. Senor Gen. D. ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA, Commander-in-chief, La Encantada." Soon after this the whole Mexican army had come up, and was arranged as follows :- On the second ridge, in front of the American army, the enemy stationed the first and second divisions of infantry, one behind the other. On the right of this, upon a higher point, was stationed a battery of -pounders, supported by the regiment of engineers. Upon their left, and near the road, were two other batteries of and -pounders and a large howitzer. In rear of the two wings was the cavalry ; in rear of the centre was the head-quarters of Santa Anna, and the regiment of hussars, his body-guard. In the rear of all was the general park, protected by the brigade of General Andrade. The first movement of the enemy was an attempt to get possession of one or two gradual slopes of the mountain upon the left of the plateau, occupied by the American reserve. To check this, Colonel Marshall was sent up the other slope with a battalion from the Indiana brigade under Major Gorman, and a - portion of the Arkansas and Kentucky volunteers, dismounted. While these hostile bodies approached each other, both with the design of outflanking, General Taylor sent Captain Bragg's battery and the d Kentucky regiment of volunteers under Colonel McKee, to occupy the slope of the eminence on the right of Washington's battery at Angostura, and a little in advance of it, for the purpose of checking a demonstration made upon the enemy's left. Three pieces of artillery had also been detached by Captain Washington up to the left of the plateau and placed under Lieutenant O'Brien, who was supported by the d Indiana regiment. These dispositions being made, the Americans calmly awaited the attack of the enemy. The signal for the opening strife was given at three o'clock by a shell from the enemy's howitzer, and soon after the light division under Ampudia was hotly engaged with the American riflemen. The former fired with rapidity and in continuous vollies ; the latter with cool deliberation and terrible effect, while they sheltered themselves from the fire of the enemy behind the crest of the ridge, which they occupied. This and an occasional cannonade directed at our troops on the plateau, comprised the action of the d, which was suspended about dark by a signal shell thrown•into the air by the enemy. The American loss was but four men wounded, while that of the enemy in killed and wounded was over three hundred ;* so deadly was the aim of the American rifle ! During the day, the st regiment of Illinois volunteers had formed a parapet along its front, and, directed by the engineers, had dug a ditch, and thrown up an epaulement with a traverse, before Washington's battery at Angostura, to occupy which Colonel Hardin detached a supporting force of two companies of his regiment, under Lieutenant-Colonel Weatherford. At sunset, General Taylor left General Wool in command of the forces, and proceeded to Saltillo, with May's dragoons and the Mississippi regiment, to complete arrangements for its defence, and prepare for the reception of his wounded after the main attack by Santa Anna, expected on the morrow. The defences were arranged as follows : Two companies of the st Illinois volunteers, •	Santa Anna's account. under Captains Morgan and Prentiss, and two companies of the d Illinois volunteers, under Captains Hacker and Wheeler, the whole commanded by Major Warren, occupied the town. The field-work commanding its approaches was garrisoned by Captain Webster's company, Est artillery, with two -pound howitzers; while the train and head-quarters camp was defended by a -pounder from Bragg's battery under Lieutenant Shover, supported by two companies of Mississippi riflemen under Captain Rogers. After the close of the battle, Santa Anna made a spirited address to his troops, which was received with enthusiastiC cries, distinctly heard in the American lines. After this the band of the Mexican chief struck up, and strains of surpassing sweetness floated down the mountain sides, and died away in faint echoes along the narrow gorge. Silence and darkness now succeeded, and amid the gloom, the troops in general sank down to slumber on their arms, without covering and without fires, exposed to the chill night-winds and occasional gusts of rain ; but on the mountains, where the cold was extreme, the light troops of both armies gathered the trunks of dwarfish trees, and the stalks of shrubs, and kindled fires, around which they gathered in shivering groups during the night. CHAPTER XIII. Action of the d—Commencement on the American left—Enemy's Columns of Attack—Advance of Lombardini's and Pachecho's Divisions—O'Brien, with his Artillery and d Indiana Regiment, ordered to repulse them—Retreat of the d Indiana Regiment—American Reserve ordered up—Second Column of Attack repulsed at Angostura—Troops on the Plateau reinforced by Artillery and Infantry—Arrival of General Taylor on the Field—Confidence restored—The gallant Mississippi Regiment—The Enemy driven back on the American left—The contest on the Plateau—Movement of the Cavalry on the Enemy's right checked—Batteries of Sherman and Bragg—Baggage-train threatened by Cavalry—Dangerous Position of the Enemy's Cavalry —Ruse of Santa Anna— Mexican Reserve ordered up—Terrible Service of O'Brien's Artillery—Slaughter of the Illinois and Kentucky Regiments—Deaths of Colonels Hardin, McKee, and Clay —Washington's Battery—Gallantry of Lieutenant O'Brien—Repulse of Minon's Cavalry—Close of the Battle—American and Mexican Losses. AT two o'clock on the morning of the d, the advanced pickets of the American army were driven in by those of Ampudia, whose light division was reinforced towards day-break by two thousand men from the divisions of Lombardini and Pachecho, with the view of gaining the American left and rear upon the mountains. Here the action commenced at dawn on the d, and was maintained with great spirit by Colonel Marshall's command, holding themselves under cover, and contending against nearly eight to one, until reinforced by Major Trail, d Illinois volunteers, with three companies of riflemen, including Captain Conner's Texas volunteers. About sunrise, Lieutenant O'Brien, who was stationed at the upper edge of the plateau with a -pound howitzer, and two guns—one a -pounder, the other a -pounder--came to their aid, and advancing his howitzer, threw with great accuracy and terrible effect six or eight shells among the troops of Ampudia, now pouring down the ini n't slope of the mountain that intervened between them and the American riflemen. The precision of the firing elicited the most enthusiastic cheering from the whole American line. By this time, the chief of Santa Anna's staff, General Micheltorena, had planted his battery of -pounders on the high ridge lying between the contending forces, and commenced a plunging fire on the plateau, which was more especially directed against O'Brien's pieces, but with little success, on account of the great distance intervening. For this reason O'Brien did not attempt to answer the fire of the enemy, as his guns were of lighter metal than the pieces of their battery. He remained silent, therefore, until subsequently ordered by General Lane to meet the advance of Pachecho's division. The enemy had now arranged three columns of attack. The first, to be led by General Mom y Villamil, and destined to force the pass of La Angostura, was composed of the d regiment of engineers, the th regiment, the figo de Mexico, and the battalions of Puebla and Tampico. The second column was composed of the divisions of Lombardini and Pachecho. The former division was to move across the ridge mentioned above, to the left of their -pounder battery, while the division of Pachecho advanced up the ravine in front of the plateau; and thus, both uniting near the mountain, together with their supporting forces of cavalry, turn the left of the American troops stationed on the plateau. The light troops, under Ampudia, were the third column of attack, and were to turn the extreme left on the mountains, and attack the American rear in conjunction with the second column, under Generals Lombardini and Pachecho. Besides these three columns, a reserve, under General Ortega, was stationed on the ground occupied by the two lines of the enemy, when first displayed on coming in sight of the American army. While the third column was hotly engaged with the American riflemen upon the mountains, and the rattle of musketry and the rifle was interminffled with the roar of the -pounders directed against the left of the plateau, Lombardini's division was moving along the ridge to unite with Pachecho, in view of the American army ; his men in full uniform, his horses in gay caparison, their burnished weapons and appointments flashing in the sunlight, and every standard, colours, and guidon unfurled to the breeze. While this pageant was passing in review, Major Mansfield, of the engineers, about nine o'clock came with the intelligence that Pachecho's division, which had moved along screened from sight, was coming up the ravine with the evident design of gaining the plateau by way of the ridge adjoining the third principal gorge, which scalloped the plateau. At this time General Wool was at Angostura, having gone thither to give some directions about the defences in that quarter. General Lane, therefore, the next in command, ordered Lieutenant O'Brien, with his three pieces of artillery, and the d Indiana regiment, to take position just beyond the head of the third gorge, and repel the enemy. By the time the guns were in battery and the regiment displayed, the Mexican infantry was ascending the ridge, and, forming in lines, opened upon it at a distance of two hundred yards. Their fire was returned immediately and effectively ; and, simultaneously with it, O'Brien's guns poured their deadly discharges upon the columns of the enemy. Though struggling against a superiority of ten to one in front, and enfiladed by a cross-fire of grape and canister from the -pounder battery on his left, General Lane gallantly maintained the contest for twenty-five minutes ; during which he swept down whole platoons at a time, and repeatedly broke the front lines of the enemy, which were as often re-formed. So murderous was the fire, that the corps of Guanajuato, which constituted the advance, was totally destroyed. With the view of getting out of range of the enemy's guns, and driving back Pachecho's troops into the ravine, General Lane ordered O'Brien to advance about fifty yards to the front, which was immediately done, and his pieces served, as before, with VJSA VlsH:	 '...LIV terrible effect. And had he been promptly sustained by his supporting force, he would have defeated this division of the enemy, and driven it back into the ravine.* But, instead of moving up to his support, the d Indiana volunteers hesitated and staggered under the severe fire of the enemy, and then, breaking off by companies from the right, fled in utter confusion, leaving the gallant O'Brien to bear the contest alone. Exertions were made to rally them, by General Lane and his staff, but without effect ; and in the effort, the brave Captain Lincoln lost his life. A few of them joined the Mississippi regiment, and did good service during the day ; some retired to Buena Vista, and others to Saltillo, where they assisted in defending the depot. It may at least be mentioned to their credit, that before flying, they had fired twenty rounds of cartridge at the enemy. In the flight, four companies of the Arkansas volunteers, which had been dismounted and ordered into action, participated, having delivered but a single fire after coming into action. By the giving way of the d Indiana regiment, the riflemen, under Colonel Marshall, were cut off from the centre, and, unable to withstand the overwhelming force of the enemy on this flank, retreated in good order, in the direction of Buena Vista. They were pursued by the Mexican cavalry and a part of the light forces under Ampudia. This force was held in check for a time by the spirited conduct of the Arkansas and Kentucky cavalry, under Colonels Yell and Marshall. Left without support, and exposed to a continuous sheet of fire, O'Brien and his brave artillerists struggled for a time against the fearful odds; and before their pieces, charged with double canister, the enemy fell in scores, like grass before the scythe. But, overpowered by numbers, he was compelled at length to limber up and fall back, yielding the -pounder to the enemy, after every horse and man that belonged to it had been killed or dis- Mexican Engineer's Report. abled. Pachecho immediately advanced, with his cavalry on the right of his infantry, and, united with Lombardini's forces, now emerging from the ravine. The entire column, moving across the plateau, concentrated its fire upon the d Illinois, under Colonel Bissell, the squadron of st dragoons, under Captain Steen, and the first section of Sherman's battery, under Lieutenants Thomas and French; all of which bad been ordered to advance just before the d Indiana regiment gave way. The service of the artillery was terrible, and cut avenues through the dense masses, while the storm of musketry strewed the ground with the dead and dying of the enemy. The cavalry, unable to attempt anything by charging into the overwhelming masses, fell back to the ravine in the rear. The enemy continued to advance in the teeth of the deadly engines, and their right to pass around the American left; and shortly after, the Illinois troops and the battery were assailed in front and rear, and upon each flank. The iron storm was resistless ; and before its fury, the Americans faltered and fell back. But the pieces were soon in battery again, supported by the Illinoians, and the enemy's flank severely galled as he passed to the left of the plateau to gain the rear. At this time the heavy first column of attack, under General Mora y Villamil, came within range of the guns at Angostura, when Washington's pieces opened upon it with signal effect. Nothing could stand up against the storm that assailed it. The enemy soon wavered, and was thrown into confusion, and sought shelter in the third gorge of the plateau and in the great ravine beyond, nor renewed the attack in that direction. About this time Captain Sherman gained the plateau with the second section of his battery, and, on reaching the bead of the first gorge, opened fire upon the enemy. The d Kentucky volunteers, under Colonel McKee and Captain Bragg, with two pieces of his battery, soon after arrived from their position beyond Washington's battery, at Angostura. A line of artillery was now formed from the head of the gorge to the ravine, which was soon driving its masses of iron and lead into the Mexican ranks. The st Illinois regiment, under the gallant Colonel Hardin, now came up from Angostura, after the repulse of Villamil, and with the squadron of st dragoons, the d Illinois and the d Kentucky regiment, constituted the supporting force of the artillery, and poured its leaden hail upon the serried masses of the enemy. When these reverses had taken place, and while the fate of the battle seemed decided—the American left forced—the enemy almost in entire possession of the plateau—and the Americans despairing of the issue—General Taylor arrived upon the field from SaItillo, and restored confidence. He was accompanied by May's dragoons, the Mississippi riflemen, under Colonel Jefferson Davis, Captain Pike's squadron of Arkansas horse, and a piece of artillery, under Lieutenant Kilburn. After some orders relative to the battle, General Taylor immediately attempted restoring the American left, and bringing into action again the d Indiana fugitives. The Mississippians under the gallant Colonel Davis were immediately led into action, while General Wool himself started to bring up to their support the third Indiana regiment stationed upon the left and in the rear of Washington's battery, at Angostura. Near the head of a small ravine which intersects the third large ravine in rear of the plateau, Colonel Davis intercepted the pursuing forces of Ampudia. A tremendous fire smote the head of the enemy's column, yet he still passed on over dead and dying—successive discharges checked his advance and caused his fire to slacken—when the Mississippians, with a loud hurrah, rushed on the enemy, passed the ravine, and clambering up the bank, after a murderous fire drove back his routed ranks upon the reserves. This accomplished, they made a dash at the enemy's cavalry on the flank, and after a few volleys, turned it back to join the infantry. Soon after the d Indiana volunteers and Lieutenant Kilburn's piece of artillery arrived, and the united force compelled the enemy to fall back still farther. While these things were going on upon the American left, the battle was still raging upon the plateau, where the advantage was rather in our favour, when Santa Anna brought upon the plateau with a heavy battery the battalion of San Patricio, consisting of Irish renegades who had basely deserted the American colours which they had sworn to support. The fire of this battery enfiladed the plateau, and was effective, but the American batteries still kept the advantage, and at length broke the attacking column. A part moved off in a direction to reinforce Ampudia, while the other, under Santa Anna, fell back to take shelter in the ravine. Perceiving this, the forces under Hardin, Bissell, and McKee, pressed on and drove back the enemy precipitately. After this advantage Captains Sherman and Bragg were despatched, with two pieces each, to sustain the American left, where the strife was obstinate and sanguinary. The plateau was still defended by four pieces—two under the intrepid O'Brien, and two under Lieutenants Thomas and Garnet. In the mean time, upon the enemy's extreme right, beyond Ampudia's forces and along the base of the mountains, cavalry was moving down towards Buena Vista, whose advance was impeded by the mounted volunteers, under Colonels Yell and Marshall. To reinforce this small body of troops, General Taylor despatched Colonel May with the regular cavalry, and Captains Preston and Pike's mounted volunteers. The united force immediately stopped the progress of the enemy's cavalry, and caused it to return along the base of the mountain, where the fire from the detachments of the batteries of Sherman and Bragg was concentrated upon it with decisive effect. Soon after, a powerful brigade of cavalry, principally lancers, under General Torrejon, had crossed the ravines in the rear, and threatened a descent upon the baggage-train parked near Buena Vista. They charged in columns of squadrons the Arkansas and Kentucky volunteers, who gallantly received them, and maintaining the contest with great spirit, repulsed them with the aid of parties of troops in that vicinity, that had fled in the morning. Colonel May with the dragoons and other cavalry, and Lieutenant Reynolds with two pieces of artillery, had been ordered to their support. The former came up too late to participate in the fight ; the other wheeled his section into battery, and played upon the retreating columns of cavalry with precision and effect. In this charge of cavalry, the gallant Colonel Yell fell at the head of his regiment, and by his side the brave Captain Porter, with many of their men. After this failure, a fresh brigade of cavalry with supporting infantry, the chivalry of the Mexican army, attempted to drive the Mississippi regiment and d Indiana volunteers, and thus force a passage to the road nearer the plateau. On they came at a gallop, in close columns of squadrons, their flags and pennons flying, and their lance-points flickering in the sun, while the Mississippi regiment was in line to receive them, and the Indiana troops in like manner, with their left resting on the right of Colonel Davis's regiment, the two lines forming an obtuse re-entrant angle to receive the enemy. A howitzer from Sherman's battery was on the left. Arrived within eighty yards, the brigade received a murderous fire from the faces of the angle, which struck down the front ranks of the column. The deadly discharges of musketry and the rifles rapidly delivered, increased the confusion of the enemy, while the howitzer of Sherman, charged with canister and grape, strewed the earth with the dead and wounded. The iron tempest poured upon him was resistless, and the dismayed enemy turned and fled for shelter to the mountains. Following up this advantage, General Taylor sent Lieutenant-Colonel May, with the troops lately returned from the engagement at the hacienda, to drive in the enemy's right along the base of the mountains. As the cavalry under May forced the troops to fall back, Lieutenant Reynolds with his two pieces kept following on, and poured destruction upon their ranks. Bragg also advanced upon them with his three pieces of artillery, and Sherman with his howitzer, supported by the Mississippi and Indiana regiments. As the enemy continued to retreat along the base of the mountains. he came at length within range of the guns upon the plateau, which prevented further retreat. Hemmed in now upon all sides, and exposed to the fire of nine pieces of artillery, whose shot and shells went crashing through their crowded masses--Reynolds's pieces on their right, Sherman's and Bragg's in front, and the pieces of O'Brien and Thomas on the plateau upon their left—their destruction seemed inevitable, when they were relieved from their dangerous position by a dishonourable ruse of Santa Anna. That treacherous chief sent a white flag to General Taylor, desiring to know what he wanted, and during the suspension of the fire ordered upon the advance of the flag, the enemy's forces which were so sorely pressed, amounting to five or six thousand, cavalry and infantry—escaped from their perilous situation. On arriving, however, near the head of the plateau, a heavy fire from O'Brien's and Thomas's pieces, which were advanced to meet them, and from the Illinois and Kentucky troops, that had also moved up, caused great destruction to their confused ranks. But while thus engaged, the Mexican reserve, composed of the best troops, with the veteran regiments in front, was entering the plateau at the head of the third gorge. The retreating party joined the reserve, making the column about twelve thousand. Before this irresistible force, the Kentucky and Illinois troops were compelled to retire and seek cover in the second gorge. O'Brien in the mean time served his pieces, charged with canister, with terrible effect ; but the enemy still pressed on, until they . SVO, DIIA\ \\\ CLAY. JR ),,..	IGO. \:,	', li ,ill';' 	h\'' . ;;; ) valp,r,;.. reached the head of the second gorge. The one half continued to move across the plateau, resisted only by O'Brien's guns ; while the other half occupied each side of the gorge, and marched down upon the American troops there crowded together, and scarcely able to stand on account of the inclined position which they occupied. The slaughter was great, and the Americans pressed down the gorge, to escape by its mouth to the road, while the whole line of their retreat was strewed with the dead and dying. On reaching the opening of the gorge, they found a large body of cavalry just closing up the door of escape. Some endeavoured to force their way through, but sank beneath the lance-points of the enemy ; while the work of destruction went rapidly on among the densely-crowded masses in the ravine. In this fearful moment was heard the thunder of Washington's battery, and spherical case-shot falling amid the enemy's cavalry, exploded with signal effect, causing confusion, dismay, and rout—and upon their rapid retreat, the remnants of the Illinois and Kentucky regiments escaped to the road, leaving hundreds of their brave companions behind them in death—among them the gallant Colonels Hardin and McKee, and Lieutenant-Colonel Clay. After the escape of the enemy's right, consequent on Santa Anna's stratagem, General Taylor ordered the troops from the American left to the plateau, where he expected a strong demonstration. While these were coming up, the American infantry had been driven, as related, by a part of the Mexican reserve, and O'Brien and Thomas, with their artillery, were endeavouring to hold in check the other portion, which kept steadily advancing. At every discharge avenues were made through the enemy's column, but the men soon closed up, and moved firmly on, while they assailed the battery with a steady fire. Nearly all his horses and cannoneers were killed and wounded, as O'Brien saw Bragg's battery coming into action, and Davis and Lane, with their brave troops, ascending the plateau. The enemy by this time was quite upon him,—he gave a final and murderous fire, and, with the few crippled companions that remained, fell back from the contest. The guns thus obtained by the enemy for want of horses to bring them away, were subsequently recaptured by Captain Drum, th artillery, at Churubusco. Bragg's battery now opened upon the enemy, with terrible fury ; Sherman's battery soon united its fire, and the Mississippi riflemen and Indiana volunteers poured a severe enfilading fire upon his flank. Still raged the iron teipest, and still, as the front ranks of the enemy fell, others succeeded to their places, who in their turn were shot down. To advance against such a storm was impossible—the enemy at length began to falter—confusion spread through their ranks, and they retreated to the great ravine, leaving the ground covered with the dead and dying, in fearful evidence of the severity of the contest. It was now about five o'clock, and the batteries moved up a few hundred yards, and opened a destructive fire upon the battalion of San Patricio, supported by the Mississippi regiment and other troops, while General Taylor despatched the cavalry under Lieutenant-Colonel May to the left, to guard against any attempt again to turn our flank in that direction. General Minon with his cavalry had advanced against Saltillo during the day, but was received by a heavy fire from the redoubt occupied by Captain Webster's company, which caused him to move off with rapidity. Towards the close of day he renewed the attempt, when, galled by a severe fire from two pieces of artillery, under Captain Shover and Lieutenant Donaldson, and a mixed command of volunteers, he hastily fled up the base of the mountains to his encampment. As the sun set, the firing on both sides slackened, and at length ceased, and darkness and comparative silence settled down upon the two armies. Expecting a renewal of the attack, General Taylor made due preparations for the next day, but when the morning dawned, the dense masses of the enemy were nowhere to be seen, and shouts of victory went up from the American host that shook the very hills around. The Mexicans had fallen back upon Agua Nueva, and subsequently retreated to Encarnacion, strewing the desert between with the dead bodies of men and horses, who had perished for lack of food. Indeed the great physical exertions, and, in a measure, the success of the Americans, may be attributed to the fact that during the pauses in the fight they were regularly refreshed, while the enemy passed three days with no more than a single meal. The battle of Buena Vista may be considered the crowning glory of the brave old chief, who had already covered himself with imperishable renown upon the fields of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma, and at the heights of Monterey. The exultation of victory, however, was saddened by the loss of the many valorous spirits, who had gone down amid the storm of battle, in the vigour of manhood or the full honours of years. The American loss in killed, wounded, and missing, was seven hundred and forty-six ; that of the Mexicans upwards of two thousand. The battle of Buena Vista left General Taylor in undisputed possession of the whole line of the Sierra Madre. Nothing was afterwards attempted by the enemy in that quarter, beyond the depredations of small parties of guerillas. For the purpose of strengthening General Scott's line, further drafts were made the following August upon his forces, which had been considerably increased. Having made proper disposition of the remaining portions for the maintenance of his own line, General .Taylor obtained leave of absence in November, and returned home, having left General Wool in command of all the forces. CHAPTER XIV. CONQUEST or Nsw Maxico.—Recognition of the War, and Disposition of the Forces—General Kearny—Army of the West—Instructions from the War Department—March from Fort Leavenworth—Arrival at Council Grove—The Prairies —Bent's Fort—Proclamation by Colonel Kearny—March resumed—Las Vegas —Expected Battle—Tacoleti—Pecos—The Caxion—Capture of Santa Fe—Appointment of Officers—Departure of General Kearny for California.—CONQUEST OF CALTFORNIA.--CoMmodore Stockton—Colonel Fremont—Kit Carson —Counter-revolution—Battle of San Pasqual—San Bernardo—Battle of the San Gabriel—Reoccupation of Los Angelos—Return of General Kearny. THE story of the recent conquest of New Mexico and California is one of rare and romantic interest. Yielding the preeminence in brilliancy of achievement and blood-bought triumph to the operations in southern and central Mexico, it takes no second place in the importance of its results, while it asserts for the force employed, skill, valour, devotion, and endurance, unsurpassed in military annals, and has crowned our arms with the truest and most abiding fame. On recognition of war between the United States and Mexico, the American land forces designed to operate against the latter formed three divisions, with distinct points of attack. The gc Army of Occupation," under Major-General Taylor, was instructed to move forward from its position on the Rio Grande, and subjugate and hold Coahuila, New Leon, and Tamaulipas. Brigadier-General Wool, with the "Army of the Centre," was to rendezvous at San Antonio de Bexar, and move on the city and state of Chihuahua ; while at Fort Leavenworth, on the Missouri, was concentrated the t, Army of the West" under Colonel Kearny, of the st regiment United States dragoons. His primary instructions were to march upon Santa F, the capital /Oil A of New Mexico, and effect the conquest and occupation of that state or department, but they were subsequently enlarged so as to embrace the conquest of California. Mounted troops were considered best for the expedition ; and agreeably to the requisition of Governor Edwards of Missouri, companies began to arrive at Fort Leavenworth in the early part of June, . They were immediately mustered into service, and instructed and drilled in military exercises. Horses, mules, wagons, ordnance, subsistence—all the necessary materiel for an invading army were collected with prudent haste, and before the end of June, the expedition, fully organized, was on its route for Mexico. The little army under Colonel Kearny numbered men, with sixteen pieces of ordnance, twelve -pounders, and four -pound howitzers. It consisted of the following corps :—Five companies st regiment United States dragoons, under Major Sumner, three hundred men, and the only regulars in the army; Captain Hudson's company of St. Louis dragoons, the tt Laclede Rangers," one hundred and seven men ; two companies of flying artillery, under Captains Fischer and Weightman, two hundred and fifty strong, with Major Clark as field-officer ; a. battalion of infantry, numbering one hundred and forty-five men, under Captains Angney and Murphy ; with eight companies, composing the st regiment of Missouri mounted volunteers, eight hundred and fifty-six men, with the following field-officers—William Gilpin, Major ; C. F. Ruff, Lieutenant-Colonel ; Alexander W. Doniphan, Colonel, and second in rank to the commander of the whole column. A gallant band of field and topographical engineers accompanied the expedition, consisting of Lieutenants Emory, Warner, Abert, and Peck. They received their orders at the seat of government, on the th of June, and within twenty-four hours thereafter were on their way, and having expeditiously completed their equipment at St. Louis, reported to Colonel Kearny at Fort Leavenworth, in time to take their line of march across the prairies ahead of the main column. A short time previous to his departure, Colonel Kearny received a communication from the Secretary of War, covering additional instructions and extended command. After the conquest and occupancy of Santa Fe, he was to press forward to California, and co-operate with the fleet there in conquering and holding that province. Besides one thousand men added to his column, he was empowered to call for additional troops, and was directed to secure the aid of a large body of Mormon emigrants, en route for that distant region. His orders in relation to the route, and many other things appertaining to the expedition, were discretionary, and he was informed that the rank of Brigadier-General would be conferred on him as soon as his movement to California should be commenced. In the last days of June, the army, broken into divisions, and preceded or accompanied by long trains of baggage and provision wagons, set forth on its toilsome westward march. Health, hopeful impatience, confidence in their chief and in each other, gave nerve to every limb, and to every bosom soldierly pride. For some days their wholly pathless route lay over elevated and rolling plains, covered with tall luxuriant grass and matted vines, and traversed by many deep ravines and steep-banked streams, the tributaries of the Kansas, or ct Kaw," and its sovereign, the Missouri. The country, rich in picturesque beauty and fertility, presented the general appearance of " vast, rolling fields, enclosed with colossal hedges." The army, on the st of July, struck upon the great Santa Fe road. The earliest rays of the morrow's sun glanced brightly back from the long lines of polished arms and streaming banners that already moved across the broad, level plain, or rose over the gently-heaving hills, which here and there diversified the boundless sea of green. Out upon the silence of the mighty solitudes, with nought but plain and sky on every side, burst forth the mirthful shout and spirit-stirring strains of martial hymns, on Independence Day. The afternoon of the th brought the advanced battalion of the army to the well-known Council Grove, the general rendezvous for union, rest, and repair, of all caravans and hunting companies, and prized deservedly for its hospitable pasturage and shade, its copious springs of most delicious water, and its abundance of serviceable timber of various kinds. Here, at a distance of about one hundred and fifty miles from the western borders of Missouri, runs the line that limits the eastward roamings of the savage tribes of Pawnees, Osages, and Sioux. The intermediate country is in the hands of Indians who own allegiance to, and receive stipends from, the United States; and who, having abandoned nomadic life, dwelling in log-houses, rearing cattle, cultivating the soil, and pursuing some of the other arts of peace, cg form the connecting link between the savage of the plains and the white man of the States." Pawnee Fork was reached on the th ; and here Colonel Kearny, with the rear division, overtook the advance, and formed a junction of forces with Colonel Doniphan. The waters of this creek, swollen by recent rains, were so high as to be then impassable ; cc the trees along the sides of the banks were half hidden ; the whirling eddies were rushing along with great velocity ; the willows that grew on the bank were waving under the strong pressure of the water, and brush and large logs were hurriedly borne along on the turbid bosom of the stream." Having encamped beside the river, whose angry condition is thus described by Lieutenant Abert, the men were promptly set to work on the construction of a raft. The energy of the commander was rivalled by the cheerful labours of his soldiers, and a wild excitement marked their struggles with, and triumph over, the fiercely rapid current that presumed to obstruct their onward way. In the forenoon of the th, immense toil and resolution had accomplished the passage across, and on the th, the whole column was again in motion, the Arkansas river route having been chosen as the most practicable. Here commenced that portion of the prairies that may justly be considered as the outskirt of the Great Desert. s A scanty vegetation sprang from the soil of these plains of granite sand, over which the eye wanders in search of trees, but wanders in .vain.. In all directions lay the short, curly buffalo-grass, with thistles and endless varieties of cactus. Wild horses, large and well-proportioned, stood in groups watching the approach of the troops, then dashed off into their native wilds in wonder and alarm. The ground was darkened and the horizon lined with herds of buffaloes ; and in close proximity to these prowled gray wolves,- eagerly watching the opportunity of prey. Along the margin of the Arkansas, a strip of luxuriant bottom-land afforded suitable places for encampment, and here occasionally scattered clumps of the cotton-wood extended an irresistible invitation to the wearied and sunburnt soldier, after his march over the sandy plains, whose monotony was sometimes relieved by the villages of prairie dogs that dotted the solitudes. Bois de vache and wild sage was the only fuel to be procured. Sickness assailed the troops. On the th, the severe illness of Colonel Kearny caused general anxiety, while the doctors' lists exceeded one hundred men. The anxiety respecting the leader of the column was, however, quickly relieved, nor was the sickness generally, though extremely harassing and debilitating, attended with fatal results. By the th, many of the gallant steeds that had thus far borne their owners over the wilderness of the strange land, failed, and were reluctantly abandoned on the prairie. Still with unabated vigour was the march continued, while the sun came hotly and witheringly down upon arid plains, that marked further entrance on the desert, and the buffalo ceased by his presence to give somewhat of life and interest to the scene. On the th, the troops first caught glimpses of the enemy's country, and every heart beat responsive to the challenge of the clarion, ringing out its joyous intimation that the struggle was now at hand. Crossing the Arkansas on the th, the army encamped on the Mexican territory, on a 'spot chosen for the convenience of grazing, about nine miles below Bent's Fort, a small post on the north bank of the Arkansas, in longitude ° / " west, and latitude ° " north. Thither large stores of supply had previously been forwarded ;—here was the appointed general rendezvous, and here, on the appointed day, August the st, with admirable precision, was concentrated the whole force, regular and volunteer, having accomplished a journey of about six hundred miles. To recruit his men, after the fatigues and distresses of their long march, as well as to make necessary provision for onward progress, Colonel Kearny detained the army three days in their regular and strictly-guarded encampment. During these days intelligence of various kinds was brought in. Three Mexicans, having upon their persons blank letters addressed to the American commander, for the supposed purpose of diverting suspicion of their character as spies, were apprehended, and by the colonel's command so conducted through the camp,. as to leave upon their minds the liveliest impressions of the strength of the army; then allowed to retire in peace—their known propensity to exaggerate being relied on, to give a sufficiently satisfactory account of what they had seen to the people and the governor of New Mexico. Rumour contradicted rumour as to the resolves and proceedings of the latter. By some it was announced that our forces would meet with no opposition ; by others, that Governor Armijo was at the head of a formidable army, that Santa Fe and Taos were being strongly fortified, and that everywhere throughout New Mexico there would be resistance to the death. Lieutenant De Courcy was, with twenty men, ordered to proceed directly through the mountain passes to the valley of the Taos, to ascertain the feelings and disposition of the people ; and on the same day, July st, was issued the following proclamation, bearing date as above, at the camp at Bent's Fort :- " The undersigned enters New Mexico with a large military force, for the purpose of seeking union with, and ameliorating the condition of its inhabitants. This he does under instructions from his government, and with the assurance that he will be amply sustained in the accomplishment of this object. It is enjoined on the citizens of New Mexico to remain quietly at their homes, and to pursue their peaceful avocations. So long as they continue in such pursuits, they will not be interfered with by the American army, but will be respected and protected in their rights, both civil and religious. All who take up arms or encourage resistance against the government of the United States will be regarded as enemies, and will be treated accordingly. S. W. KEARNY, Colonel st Dragoons." From the Fort, on the d of August, an American flag threw out its wide folds to the breeze from the desert, in salutation to the Army of the West, again en route for Santa Fd. The ordnance train had not arrived, neither had the new levies ordered in Missouri ; but the colonel desired, by the celerity of his movements, to embarrass and frustrate any attempts at combined resistance by the enemy. For several days the road lay across the Great American Desert, and men and animals suffered much, the horses, especially, falling off in an alarming manner. This arid waste being left behind, they ascended the Raton or Mouse, a chain of ragged mountains that separates the waters of the Arkansas from those of the Canadian. The ascent of the pass was arduous; but the views from the summit, seven thousand five hundred feet above the level of the sea, were inexpressibly beautiful and sublime. To the north-west rose Pike's Peak ; to the south and south-west, the Wattahyah, or Twin Hills, and the spurs that run southward from the Wattahyah ; to the east towered up the singularly formed summits of the Raton, presenting the appearance of a succession of castles, with time-worn and storm-stained battlements, now glistening in the, sunshine, now seeming to frown upon the small adventurous host that threaded upward the defile. The descent was found more rapid, and much more difficult than the ascent, the road passing over many sharp spurs formed by the channel of the mountain stream, resolutely working its way to the Canadian ; on the main branch of which latter river, a day's halt, with abundant supplies of water, wood, and grass, was gladly enjoyed after the fatigues of crossing the mountains. Here commenced a hardship incidental to such expeditions, but infinitely more harassing and annoying to the' volunteer just fresh from the abundance and comforts of home, than any toil of the road, or any effort of Mexican military skill and prowess. The army was put on half rations, and so continued, until their arrival in Santa F. But after a few good-humoured benedictions on the provoking contre-temps, the men calmly accommodated themselves to the sacrifice, and even merrily discussed the diminished fare. Spies were daily captured, but upon the information elicited from them, little reliance could be placed. On the th, Mr. Towle, an American citizen, came into camp, reporting himself just escaped from Taos, and stating that on the previous day had been received there the proclamation of Governor Armijo, calling all the citizens to arms, and placing the whole country under martial law; that Armijo had assembled the Pueblo Indians, numbering about two thousand, and all the citizens capable of bearing arms ; that on the day this proclamation was issued, three hundred Mexican dragoons had arrived in Santa Fti, and that twelve hundred more were hourly expected ; that the Mexicans were every man eager for a fight, but the Indians generally not so bellicose. Each day now brought its quota of increasing interest. On the persons of several Mexicans captured on the th, were found copies of the proclamation of the Prefect of Taos, based on that of Armijo, summoning the people to arms to repel the American invaders, who were coming to tc destroy their property and liberties," and ordering an enrolment of all citizens between the ages of fifteen and fifty. The th brought the advance of the column to the valley of the Moro creek, and the first settlements they had seen in their march of seven hundred and eighty miles. Bent's spy company brought in an ensign and three privates, sent forward by the enemy to reconnoitre. From them it was learned that the Mexicans were assembling in force to do battle at Las Vegas. And at the halting-place this evening a Mr. Spry came into camp, on foot, and nearly destitute of clothing, having been furtively despatched from Santa Fe on the previous night, to communicate to Colonel Kearny the stirring intelligence, that Armijo was energetically assembling his forces in preparation for a vigorous resistance, and that the Carron, a well-known pass or defile, narrow, and easily defended, was now being fortified, that from this vantage-ground, and with overwhelming numbers, the further progress of our army might be disputhd and stayed. Early in the march of the th a lieutenant, accompanied by a sergeant and two privates, of Mexican lancers, all respectably clad and accoutred, but miserably mounted, presented themselves. The officer proved to be the bearer from Governor Armijo of a letter, which, says Lieutenant Emory, was a sensible, straightforward missive, and if written by an American or Englishman, would have meant this :-( You have notified me that you intend to take possession of the country I govern. The people of the country have risen en masse in my defence. If you take the country, it will be because you prove the strongest in battle. I suggest to you to stop at the Sapillo, and I will march to the Vegas. We will meet and negotiate on the plains between them." After a delay of some hours, during which the artillery was passed over the Sapillo, and the troops brought within sight of Las Vegas," a village on the creek of the same name, the messenger and his escort were dismissed with a verbal reply from Colonel Kearny, ec Say to General Armijo, that I shall meet him soon, and I hope it will be as friends." This day the face of the country had begun greatly to improve, indications of culture and comfort presented themselves, herds and flocks dotted the valleys, the stately pine and cedar adorned the hills, and gardens and waving corn for the first time greeted the soldiers' weary eyes. The village, at a short distance, looked like an extensive brick-kiln. On nearer approach, its outline presented a square with some arrangements for defence, within which the inhabitants are, not unfrequently, compelled to retreat with all their stock, for protection against the attacks of the predatory Eutaws and Navajoes. In sight of the little town, and away for a mile down the valley of the beautiful creek, extended the American camp. On one side rushed the clear mountain stream, on the other, unprotected by any interposing hedge or fence, lay the broad fields of luxuriant grain, irrigated from the creek by numerous artificial canals. The sweet water was free, but a closely-posted chain of sentinels strictly guarded those tempting fields from intrusion or injury by the hungry animals, and the men with jealous honour obeyed the orders given to respect the persons, properties, and feelings of the inhabitants. At midnight, news was brought that the enemy was in considerable force in one of the formidable gorges of the mountain, distant two miles from the camp, and that here battle would be given. By seven in the morning of the th, the troops were in motion ; and, as they neared the town, they were overtaken by Major Swords, from Fort Leavenworth, with captain Weightman and Lieutenant Gilmer, who, hearing there was to be a fight, had ridden sixty miles during the night to be in for the fray. Major Swords was bearer to Colonel Kearny of his commission as Brigadier-General of the army of the United States. A halt was called close to the village, while the general addressed, from the broad roof of one of the low adobe houses in the public square, the alcalde and people. He came, he said, by orders of his government, to take possession of the country, and extend over it the laws of the United States. They came amongst the people as friends—not as enemies ; as protectors—not as conquerors ; to confer benefits—not to commit injuries. Henceforth they were absolved from all allegiance to the Mexican government, from all obedience to General Armijo. The latter was no longer their governor—he (General K.) was their governor. Active partisanship on their part was not expected. Those who remained peaceably at home should be amply protected in their properties, persons, and religion ; and not a pepper, not an onion, should be taken or disturbed by the troops, without pay and the consent of the owner. Submission would insure safety—resistance was useless. The general then, in a solemn manner, administered the oath of allegiance to the United States, to the alcalde and two captains of militia ; one of the latter swallowing it with a ludicrous ill-grace. He then shook hands with the alcalde, whom he continued in office, and through him with all the people, whom he hailed as good citizens of the United States, to which a general shout and grimaces of satisfaction were the ready response. cg To horse, and onward !" was now the cry ; the foe were waiting in the pass. Banners and guidons were unfurled, and streaming out to the dazzling sun—the officers dashed eagerly along the lines—each great gun was ready, and every rifle charged. Nerved to the utmost was every arm, and the flash of stern joy in every eye. The gorge is neared—the walk quickens to a lively trot—the trot breaks into a gallop. The pass is entered —it is cleared—no enemy is seen. Even the horses droop their beads in disappointment, as sullenly, and one by one, the guidons are furled, and all things assume the ordinary tameness of the march. Noon brought the army to the village of Tacolete, and to the people there, the same change of government, with the same ceremonies, as had metamorphosed Las Vegas. San Miguel, another of these adobd villages, situated on the river Pecos, witnessed a repetition of the same drama, on the th. And here again expectation was on tiptoe, for every few minutes brought in additional reports, that Armijo was collecting an overwhelming force, to contest the army's further march, at the celebrated Cation, the Pecos pass, fifteen miles from Santa Fe. The th saw the banner of the Union passing proudly by the interesting ruins of the ancient, and once strongly fortified, town of Pecos, standing on a rocky eminence. Built, as it is alleged, before the conquest by the Spaniards, it presents the blended features of Pagan and Catholic architecture. Here, until within the last seven years, had burned the eternal holy fire, whose incense had ceaselessly ascended for centuries before the conquest, and whose sacredly fatal flame was watched and fed with unwearied fidelity by the Indian, even after his conversion to the'faith of the Cross. But gradually the devoted tribe diminished in number, until at last too few were left to maintain the undying flames in the vast eg estuffa ;" then yielding to the sore necessity, the remnant abandoned the holy spot, and passed over the mountains to the south, to mingle with a kindred tribe of their original race, and there still keep up the eternal fire of Montezuma. Some few years it yet may burn ; but the toil, the unceasing watchfulness, and the exposure to continued heat, consequent upon their faithful adherence to the old delusion, is with steady progress diminishing the already thin numbers of the tribe, and ere long, in all human probability, the holy fire, and the breath of the last of Montezuma's race, will go out together. Santa Fe was still distant nine-and-twenty miles, on the morning of August the th, and between it and the army lay the formidable Cation, which, fifteen miles from the town, contracts into a narrow gorge, some forty feet in width, above which rise hills ropy hundred feet on either side. cc It is a gateway," says Colonel Emory, gt which in the hands of a skilful engineer and one hundred men, would have been perfectly impregnable." Here Governor Armijo had taken up his position, with four thousand men and six pieces of artillery, and had thrown up an abattis. But even here our troops were destined to find no foe in arms. Whether owing to dissensions among his followers and officers, or from some other cause, Armijo had abandoned this commanding, position without firing a single gun, and with his artillery and an escort of one hundred dragoons, had fled in hot haste towards Chihuahua. The army passed on. Vigil, the lieutenant-governor, with other leading citizens, received the general and his companions at the palace, and tendered to them the hospitalities of the place. With the setting of the sun, our guns, from an eminence overlooking the town, saluted the flag of the United States, floating over the capital of New Mexico. In fifty days the Army of the West had marched, from Fort Leavenworth, eight hundred and eighty-three miles, over solitudes and and wastes, and subjugated, without striking a blow, a province containing a hundred thousand inhabitants, and in its commercial and military aspect a possession all-important to these United States. On the morning of the th, the general, through his interpreter Robideaux, addressed the assembled people at considerable length, distinctly and firmly claiming henceforth the whole of New Mexico for his country, while giving the strongest assurances to all, of the peaceable and friendly intentions of his government, and of his army, and pledging the national faith to the protection of person, property, and religion. He declared them absolved from all allegiance to the government of Mexico, and promised the speedy promulgation of a civil government, similar to those in his own country, and under which the people would enjoy freedom and happiness hitherto unknown. The acting governor and other magistrates then took the oath of allegiance to the United States, and the people at large saluted the general with shouts, vivas, and huzzas. The same energy and skill that had conducted the army through difficulties of no ordinary kind to bloodless victory, and the quiet occupation of the capital, now marked the measures taken for the permanent securing of the conquest. A fort, suited for a competent garrison, was immediately commenced on a site selected by Lieutenants Emory and Gilmer, within six hundred yards of the heart of the town, and from sixty to one hundred feet above it. Under the superintendence of these officers, and by the cheerful labours of men detailed from the several corps, quickly arose a substantial structure, named, in compliment to the Secretary of War, Fort Marcy. A proclamation was issued announcing to the people of New Mexico the capture of Santa Fd, and the general's intention to hold the province, or department, with its original boundaries on both sides the Del Norte, as a part of the United States, and under the name of the territory of New Mexico ;—reiterating and confirming the promises heretofore given of the fullest protection in religion, property, and person ; and urgently recommending peaceful submission and allegiance to the United States. Interviews were had with those who had held authority under the Mexican government, with the clergy, and others, and the most conciliatory efforts used to win public confidence and attachment. With the chiefs and wise men of the Pueblo Indians, a large and formidable tribe, but among the most peaceable and best citizens of the department, conferences were had, in which their minds were fully disabused of the terrors sought to be impressed by the Mexican priests, regarding the barbarous treatment to be expected from the ,c Americanos," and they, and the several tribes of half-breeds, were made fast friends for ever. The savage Navajoes were warned to desist henceforth from their predatory and murderous inroads, and menaces of immediate and effective vengeance held forth in case of their disobedience. From Taos and its neighbourhood, deputations arrived, charged with the duty of giving in the popular allegiance and adhesion, and soliciting protection from the Indians. Their words and demeanour manifested the most friendly disposition; subsequent events proved them adepts in duplicity. The last day of August brought with it reports, apparently well authenticated, that Armijo, having been joined by Colonel Ugarte with a force of five hundred regulars, and some artillery, was now rallying the people to the south, and with daily increasing strength, advancing on the capital. To quiet the public apprehensions, and promptly suppress any symptoms of an insurrectionary kind, General Kearny, on September d, marched out of Santa Fe with seven hundred men, on a reconnoissance down the valley of the Rio Grande. He passed through Santo Domingo, San Felipe, Albuquerque, and many other villages, to Tome, distant one hundred miles from Santa Fe. Everywhere the troops were received with hospitality, and manifestations of friendly welcome. The last sixty miles of this route, from Algodones to Tome, presented the appearance of one continued straggling village, so closely clustered towns, hamlets, and farm-houses, along both banks of the river ; while the inhabitants, especially the women, as well as the soldiers, enjoyed what seemed rather an excursion of pleasure among friends, than a military demonstration in a hostile land. Returned to Santa Fe by the th, General Kearny busied himself in making arrangements for the civil government of the province, for the military occupation of the capital and outposts, and for the prosecution of the further object intrusted to him, the expedition to California. A collection of laws for the administration of the territory, prepared by Colonel Doniphan, with the aid of Mr. Willard P. Hall, then serving as a private in the Missouri dragoons, and afterwards, while still so serving, elected by his district as representative in Congress, was promulgated on the d ; and simultaneously therewith the following appointments were made by the general, under authority from the president :—Charles Bent, to be governor ; Donaisano Vigil, to be secretary ; Richard Dallam, marshal ; F. P. Blair, United States district attorney ; Charles Blumner, treasurer ; Eugene Leitzendorfer, auditor of public accounts; Joab Houghton, Antonio Jose Otero, Charles Baubian, judges of the superior court, of the newly subjugated territory. In this list of officials, it will be seen, Americans and Mexicans were combined. The conquest was complete, tranquillity was perfectly restored, law and order succeeded to oppression and anarchy ; everything wore the aspect of peacefulness and content By letter to the adjutant-general, the chief now communicated his resolution of departing for the shores of the Pacific on the th of September, in the hope of reaching his destination by the end of the following month ; assuring the department, that no exertions would be wanting on the part of any one attached to the expedition in insuring to it full and entire success. The little army, whose triumphant progress we have hitherto followed from the borders of Missouri to the capital of New Mexico, was now divided into three columns, destined to operate in districts far apart, and never to reunite on foreign soil. Colonel Doniphan, with his own regiment, and Captain Weightman's battery of artillery, was directed to remain in New Mexico, until the arrival, now daily expected, of the d Missouri mounted volunteers, under Colonel Price, and, on being relieved by that officer, to proceed southward and effect a junction with General Wool at Chihuahua. The infantry battalion, under command of Captain Angney, and Fischer's company of artillery, were to remain in Santa F. The force designated to march on Califor- nia consisted of the little corps of topographical engineers, and three hundred of the st United States dragoons, under Major Sumner, with two mountain howitzers. Of the vast territories which lay between our western borders and the broad Pacific, and the acquisition of which has added more than a fourth to the national domain, little was accurately known, previous to the visit of the United States expedition under Lieutenant Wilkes, in , and the subsequent explorations by land of Colonel Fremont. At intervals of frequent recurrence in the history of this continent, the name of California had attracted attention, and rumour had spread abroad vague and varying ideas or its extent, capabilities, and resources ; but, while the coast of that distant region was imperfectly and even erroneously laid down, the great interior of the two provinces was an unexplored land, from which only the adventurous trader or daring hunter occasionally brought back scant and contradictory information. The peculiarities, however, of its position, as regarded these states ; its commercial and political importance, in relation to a not far distant future ; had not failed to be appreciated, either by our own statesmen, or by those of foreign countries : and the necessary, self-protecting policy of America was plainly indicated by the precautionary seizure and temporary occupation of Monterey, in , by our squadron, under Commodore Ap Catesby Jones, acting upon information of a 'contemplated surrender of California to Great 'Britain. After the conquest of New Mexico, and the establishment of civil government at Santa Fe, General Kearny made a proper disposition of his forces, and prepared for his second and more arduous enterprise. Leaving orders for the officer commanding the Mormon battalion, five hundred strong, upon arriving at Santa Fe, to take up the line of march in his rear, General Kearny, on the th of September, set out for California, with the corps of topographical engineers, and the three hundred United States dragoons, under Major Sumner. For several days the route lay over ground previously traversed, and through villages visited before, during the military reconnoissance as far as Tome. The Rio Grande was crossed at Albuquerque, sixty-five miles below Santa Fe, where the depth of the river was about thirty inches, and its width some five-and-twenty yards. The valley of the Rio Grande presents thus far down, bottom lands, about a mile and a half wide, and elevated but a few feet above the level of the running stream, which is rapid and regular, and affords the greatest facilities for irrigation, by means of zequias, or little artificial canals. These are indispensible aids to cultivation in a country, the lowlands of which are seldom, if ever, visited by rains. West of this belt of bottom land lies a succession of rolling sand-hills, amid which are the hiding-places during day of the Navajoes, whence, in small companies, these predatory lords of New Mexico descend at night to the valley, to bear off from the settlements motley plunder of fruit and cattle, as well as children and women. When united in more numerous bands, they boldly come down by day and levy their blackmail, then quickly retire to their far distant, and apparently inaccessible, retreats in the mountains, whither Mexican vengeance has never yet essayed pursuit. At Tome, reached October the st, the river was found to measure thirty yards in width, its depth still continuing about thirty inches. Below this, for a distance of some miles, the valley widens, the soil improves, and the cultivation is of a superior kind. But after passing the pretty village of Sabinal, cc the settlements became very few and far between." It their encampment at the bend of the river, opposite La Joya, the column awaited during the d, the wagons which had fallen in the rear. Here an express from Colonel Price announced the arrival of that officer at Santa Fe. And at noon a Mexican on panting steed rode into camp, claiming instant aid and protection against the Navajoes, on the pact of the alcalde and people of Pulvidera. Captain Moore's company was forthwith despatched to the rescue : while orders were sent to Colonel Doniphan to march his regiment into the Navajo country, for the purpose of effectually repressing their incursions. A march of twelve miles on the th brought the column to the appropriately named village of Pulvidera, at which place the dragoons had arrived too late on the preceding day to render any assistance. - The Indian assailants, in number about one hundred well mounted men, had descended rapidly on the town, and driven of the horses and cattle, while the terrified inhabitants took refuge in their mud houses. The people of Lamitas, a village two miles below, rose to the rescue of their neighbours, and seized upon the pass, or gorge, by which alone retreat with all the plunder could be made good. The Indians, thus in part foiled, slaughtered wantonly on the spot as many as they could of the captured oxen and goats, and with the larger number of the horses and mules scrambled away over the hills and cliffs beyond pursuit. No wounds had been given or received. A more disastrous foray had been made by the same band upon the settlements higher up the river, ere yet the American army had reached Santa I'd, and when Armijo had called for a levy en, masse. Then, in addition to other varied plunder, fifteen or sixteen of the prettiest women had been borne away. c; Women," says Colonel Emory in his extremely interesting Notes,—" women, when captured, are taken as wives by those who capture them, but they are treated by the Indian wives of the capturers as slaves, and made to carry wood and water ; if they chance to be pretty, or receive too much attention from their lords and masters, they are, in the absence of the latter, unmercifully beaten, and otherwise maltreated. The most unfortunate thing which can befall a captive woman, is to be claimed by two persons. In this case she is either shot, or delivered up for indiscriminate violence." To the people of New Mexico assuredly the change in government ought to be welcome, even were it attended by no other benefit, than absolute security in the future against outrages such as these. Pursuing his route along the bank of the Rio Grande, on the th of October, General Kearny was met by the celebrated adventurer, trapper and guide, Kit Carson, sent with an escort of sixteen men, including six Delaware Indians, as bearer of express despatches from Commodore Stockton and Lieutenant-Colonel Fremont, at Monterey, to the authorities at Washington. The information brought by Mr. Carson, who had left Ciudad de los Angelos on the st of September, represented the Californias as already in possession of the above-named officers ; that in the space of some ten days the upper country had been revolutionized, and placed under the American flag, whioh now floated in undisputed sovereignty from every important position ; that there the war was ended, and peace and harmony established among the people. If this unlooked-for intelligence shot a momentary chill through the bosoms of the gallant little band, that had in loyal brotherhood of hope threaded its way through toils and trials to such a distance from home, and saw now even the chance of honourable trophy from the battle-field denied, the patriotic and the brave will know how to appreciate and to pardon the soldier's disappointment. How much more ready to cknowledge and estimate aright the purer, sterner patriotism, that quickly swallowed up the fingerings of self-love and soldierly ambition in the pride of American success, and with cheerfulness resumed the dull routine of duty ever faithfully performed, while sighing as it thought of laurels which it might have shared ! Under these circumstances, it seemed to the general unnecessary to take with him the whole of his present force, a portion of which might be more serviceably employed in the already subjugated province. Accordingly, three companies of the dra- Qg goons and the principal part of the baggage-train, under Major Sumner, were ordered to retrace their steps, to winter at Albuquerque, or operate as might be found expedient. The reduced column for advance now comprised the general and his personal staff, Major Swords; Captains Johnson and Turner, Assistant-Surgeon Griffin, Lieutenants Emory and Warner, with their assistants and attendants, and Captain Moore, with Lieutenants Hammond and Davidson, and one hundred men of the st dragoons. Mr. Robideaux accompanied as interpreter ; and Mr. Carson, yielding to the urgent representations of General Kearny, who insured the safe delivery in Washington of the despatches, by a trust-worthy and expeditious messenger, and took on himself the whole responsibility, consented to forego his cherished hopes of soon rejoining his family, and undertook the piloting of the column through the mountains and the deserts, the difficulties and the dangers of which he had, with his faithful followers, just overcome. The two mountain howitzers went with the advancing force, and the returning command was put under requisition to supply the best outfits for these, and the six wagons, drawn each by eight stout mules, that followed the dragoons. Soon the last settlements were past, and thenceforth a new road was to be explored. The valley began to narrow, and the table-land, over which they were compelled to make their way, was rugged, and obstructed by thick bushes, rendering the toilsome services of a pioneer force indispensable, and progress con. sequently slow. Worse, they were informed, awaited them in front. On the th, the teams came blown and staggering into camp; after a journey of less than twelve miles, and some of the wagons were broken. It was therefore determined to send back the wagons and resort to mules with pack-saddles, for the transportation of the baggage and provisions. Awaiting these new modes of conveyance, for which messengers had been sent to Major Sumner, the four following days were spent in camp. Here a cross section of the river gave a width of one hundred and eighteen feet, with an average depth of fourteen inches, the water flowing over large round pebbles, making it unsuitable for navigation with any kind of boats ; the fall is estimated at four feet and a half in the mile. On the th, Lieutenant Ingalls arrived with a mail, the last communication that could be expected with the United States. On the evening of the same day, the pack-saddles came up, and on the morrow, the wagons having been sent back, under charge of Lieutenant Ingalls, the march was resumed. Two hundred and thirty miles below Santa F, the army took its final departure from the Rio Grande del Norte, on October th, marching westward over a table-land, deeply cut by the now du channels of the mountain streams. The approach to the Sierra de los Mimbres was over cc a beautiful rolling country, traversed by small streams of pure water, fringed with a stunted growth of walnut, live oak, and ash," and through the delightful and rich, though here narrow, valley of the Mimbres river. The th brought them to the celebrated copper-mines, which are extremely rich in that ore and in gold, but have been abandoned in consequence of the Apache Indians cutting off all supplies from the operators, destroying the mining town, and manifesting jealous and determined hostility. On the morning of the th, a party of these Indians, headed by their chief, Red Sleeve, came into camp, mounted on small, but fine and well-cared horses, and fantastically attired, mostly in habiliments plundered from the Mexicans. Beautiful helmets decked with black feathers covered the heads of some, but the most were bare-headed and bare-legged, with buskins, waist-belt, and cartridge-box. Variously armed as attired, some bore guns, others lances and bows and arrows, in the use of all of which they are exceedingly expert. A nomad race, whose temporary dwellings are formed of interwoven twigs, they roam the fair hills and pleasant rolling lands that over- hang the Del Norte between the st and d parallels of latitude, and plunder without compunction any weaker bands that fall in their way. Now they vowed before the general eternal peace and friendship with the white men, and everlasting hatred to the Mexicans. Carson placed little value on their vows. Resuming the march at noon, they slowly descended the narrow valley of Night Creek, overhung on each side by huge masses of volcanic rock, that with their ragged and precipitous walls much impeded the road. A descent of five miles brought them to the bank of the famous Gila, a bold, clear stream, fifty feet wide and about two feet deep, running swiftly over a pebbly bed, bordered with trees, and closed in by mountains. Hence the route wound through the wild and bewildering fastnesses of the savage Indian tribes, who hold in terrified subjection the once flourishing states of Chihuahua and Sonora. Still fertile and abounding in natural resources, they are rapidly declining in wealth and population ; and if the incessant devastations and alarms of these, their uncivilized mountain lords, be not stayed, the country must soon become a wide, luxuriant waste. An almost impracticable labyrinth of mountain-spurs and valleys ;,ascents and descents narrow, tortuous, and paved with sharp fragments of basalt and of trap; rocks, precipices, and ravines, in which every aspect of nature and of life was strange, imposed on men and beasts an incredible amount of painful exertion and incessant toil. Ruins, connected by tradition with the ancient race of Montezuma, and manifesting a civilization now lost in its antiquity, were frequently encountered ; these were generally surrounded by heaps of broken pottery, and in some instances traced with hieroglyphics, no key to which has yet been discovered. Interviews were repeatedly had with smaller or larger groups from the Apache and kindred tribes ; but treacherous and cruel themselves, they obstinately declined such intercourse as could be beneficial. Vain were all efforts made to procure from them a supply of mules, to replace those which had in numbers foundered and died under the toils of the road. Their promises were abundant, their anxiety to barter manifest, and their desire of gain strong, but stronger than all these were their cowardly doubts and habitual duplicity. Centuries had formed the roots of that deep, undying hate, which they bore the Mexican ; the wrongs of their forefathers were vaguely remembered, but shapeless as these memories were, they exercised over the now savage race a resistless sway, and made them look upon all whites with that most deadly of hatreds, the hatred of revenge and of fear. The rugged mountains were left on the th of November, and the valley of the Gila extended its width. This river had been crossed times innumerable by the army, so often frequently as from ten to fifteen times in a single day's march, so jealously do the craggy spurs and precipitous cafions obstruct the progress of an intruding force. On the th, a march of six miles over a plain, giving, in its now unused zequias, ruins, and thickly strewed fragments of pottery, evidences of having once sustained an industrious and dense population, brought them to the remains known as the ce Casa de Montezuma." Portions of the walls of four buildings exist, and piles of earth testify to the site of many others. The one which was found most nearly entire, was a building of some fifty or sixty feet square, of four stories in elevation ; the walls, built of a sort of whitish earth mixed with pebble, were four feet thick, pierced for doors and windows, smoked outside, and plastered, or glazed, within. No traces of steel implements were left upon the timbers, which were round and unhewn. Fire had evidently destroyed the whole interior, and no specimens of household furniture or domestic art were to be found—with the exception of marine shells cut into ornaments, and the corn-grinder commonly met among all the ruins on the plains. About two hundred yards from the chief ruin, a terrace, about three hundred feet in length, and five in height, was surmounted by a pyramid, eight feet high, which commanded a view of the vast plain, stretching to north-east and west, on the left bank of the Gila ; the whole extent of which, for many miles, seemed to have been at one time irrigated by water from the river. Along this plain now graze the cattle of the peaceful and interesting Indian tribes, the Pimos and Maricopas ; tribes distinct, but not dissimilar, living as neighbours in cordial amity. To the army they accorded a frank welcome, and ready hospitality. An industrious, intelligent, and virtuous people, they occupy a beautiful and fertile valley, from which they procure many of the comforts and even little luxuries of life, remote from the busy world, and seldom visited by whites, and then only by those who in distress confidently seek aid, that is ever generously bestowed. Their religion consists simply in a belief in one supreme and benevolent spirit. cc It was a rare sight," we quote from Colonel Emory, cc it was a rare sight to be thrown in the midst of a large nation, of what is termed wild Indians, surpassing many of the Christian nations in agriculture, little behind them in the useful arts, and immeasurably before them in honesty and virtue." Even by the Mexican government the worth of this people, numbering several thousand souls, has been uniformly appreciated, while the Apaches have ever found them superior in battle, and have even in their own retreats suffered severe chastisement for thefts and other outrages, whenever hazarded against men that are as peaceful as they are brave. A two days' rest in this pleasing neighbourhood having much refreshed the men and recruited the animals, at noon of the th, a farewell watering was given to the horses, ere they set out on the Tesotal Jornada. Across a plain of granitic sand, which rose almost imperceptibly to the summit of a hill range, running south-east, and which was wholly destitute of vegetation, and down the opposite slope of similar character, they made a two days' journey, during which the mules suffered dreadfully for lack of food and water. Many perished, and those which survived gave little promise of future service. Rest in camp, in the Gila bottom-land, was necessary during the th, as on the morrow they were to set out on the most distressing part of the journey, a distance of three hundred miles, reported to be without grass. For many days the march was over parched valleys and tablelands, dreary beyond description, where a few stunted growths of the Larrea Mexicana, gave almost the only sign of vegetation. This bitter and offensive shrub, even mules when most hungry refuse to touch. The cane and willow found here and there in the low grounds, afforded these poor animals a scanty subsistence. By the d, most of the men were on foot, and the general's horse having given out, he was obliged to have recourse to his mule. This day they reached the junction of the Gila with the Colorado, where the united streams force a canon through a butte of feldspathic granite, and flow due magnetic west. As the column approached the end of its day's march, they encountered a trail, indicating the recent passage of a mounted force of probably one thousand men. Reports which had reached the Pimo villages strengthened the first supposition, that it was General Castro on his return from Sonora, with a cavalry force, to regain California. If so, he could not be far distant ; the column numbered only one hundred and ten men, that was a force too small to await an attack ; promptly therefore did the general resolve, should the conjecture prove correct, to assail the enemy's camp the moment night set in, and beat them before they could have time or light to discover the disparity of numbers. Lieutenant Emory was ordered to reconnoitre, and soon ascertained that their neighbours were a party of Mexicans, on their way from California to Sonora, with five hundred horses for the use of Castro's command. On the person of one of these intercepted Mexicans was found a mail ; the letters, suspected of being on public affairs, were of course opened, and from them it was ascertained that a counter-revolution had taken place in California, that the Americans were expelled from Santa Barbara, Puebla de los Angelos, and other places, and that Captain Flores commanded as general and governor in the country, which had thrown off the detestable Anglo-Yankee yoke." From the horses, General Kearny levied a much needed supply. ' Ten miles below the mouth of the Gila they forded the Colorado, there five hundred yards wide, and in mid-channel about four feet deep. Along the river bottom they Marched thirty miles further, then, at dawn of day on November th, each man with a bundle of the river-grass tied to the cantle of his saddle, turned their course across the formidable desert. This dreary waste of floating sand lay in their route ninety miles from water to water ; in crossing it, during three days and nights, much suffering was endured, and numbers of the horses and mules sunk on the heavy sands, to die of hunger and thirst. Refreshed by the waters of the Cariso creek, they slowly pursued a scarcely less toilsome road, partly through thickets of the centennial plant, the Agave Americana, the countless spears of which sadly tore the dismounted and wearied men, whose feet and legs were now almost bare ; partly over rugged rocks, amid hills where barrenness and desolation held sovereign sway. The flesh of the jaded horses, poor and tough, supplied no palatable food, and the howl of the wolves no cheering lullaby, as the ferocious creatures battled over the carcasses of the deserted beasts. December the d, the frontier settlement of California, Warner's Rancheria, in the beautiful valley of the Agua Caliente, burst upon their delighted view. Here they rested, and made some slight amends for their long-continued abstinence. This rancho, or farm, was sixty miles from San Diego, now in possession of Commodore Stockton, and eighty miles from Los Angelos. Despatching a letter to Commodore Stockton, requesting him to send out a party to open a communication between them, the general pushed cautiously forward, and on the th was met, about forty miles from San Diego, by Captain Gillespie, with an escort of thirty-five men, sent out by the commodore. This little force consisted of California volunteers, with some carbineers from the ship Congress, under Lieutenant Beall, and was accompanied by a field-piece. From Captain Gillespie were learned the main facts of the attempted revolution and the then existing state of affairs. Thinking his conquest complete, and all things secure, Commodore Stockton, on the d of September, withdrew his force of sailors and marines from Ciudad de los Angelos to San Francisco, where he designed to make arrangements for an attack on Mazatlan and Acapulco, in conjunction with Lieutenant-Colonel Fremont. The latter joined him on the th of October with the main strength of his battalion, leaving Captain Gillespie, with nineteen volunteers and a few pieces of ordnance, to garrison the capital. The departure of the great body of the American forces from the vicinity of Los Angelos, was the signal for revolt, incited by the Mexican officers still lingering in the territory. The insurgents, several hundred strong, took the field under Flores, and hourly gathering force, compelled Captain Gillespie to capitulate, on terms highly honourable to him and his little band, and to retire from the presence of overwhelming numbers, on board the Savannah, Captain Mervine, then lying off San Pedro. Meantime, Lieutenant Talbot, a young, but most gallant and meritorious officer, who had been left as military commandant at Santa Barbara, a pretty place about one hundred miles north of Los Angelos, with his little force of nine men, was hotly besieged by above two hundred insurgents, under Don Manuel Gaspar. AA Having effected his escape from the town, Talbot took post in the neighbouring hills, to await the return of the troops. Being discovered in his retreat, the Californians burned him out, and, with infinite peril and difficulty, he and his band escaped into the mountains, and thence, after a month's travel over some five hundred miles, enduring much hardship and suffering, they effected a junction with Colonel Fremont at Monterey, where the latter was recruiting for the expedition to the south. Informed of the revolt, Commodore Stockton had sent down the (‘ Savannah" to San Pedro. He followed himself in the (( Congress," and took up his march for Los Angelos, dragging along by hand six of the ship's guns. Now he was in possession of San Diego, with his noble force of sailors and marines, doing duty merrily on shore, as horse, foot, and artillery. Having further learned from Captain Gillespie, that an armed band of the enemy, with an extra supply of horses, was encamped at the Indian village of San Pasqual, nine miles distant from his present position, General Kearny sent out Lieutenant Hammond with a party to reconnoitre. This party saw, and was seen by, the foe. The reveille sounded at two o'clock on the morning of the th December, and at three the march was resumed in order of battle. The enemy, one hundred and eighty fresh, well-armed, and well-mounted men, under Colonel Andreas Pico, were already in the saddle, prepared for an attack. Here then, at length, the little section of the army, weary and worn from its perilous and most harassing march over the half of a mighty continent, ill clad, ill mounted, and ill fed, was to grapple for the first time, and at his own door, with the foe. General Kearny, with Lieutenants Emory and Warner at his side, rode immediately in rear of Captain Johnson and the advanced guard of twelve dragoons, mounted on the best horses that remained. Then followed Captain Moore, with about fifty of the dragoons, mounted, with few exceptions, on the jaded and , r , SKETCH OF THE ACTIONS F OUGHT AT IiLL IN .TIER CALIFORNIA Between the Americans and Mexicans D_EC.e anted lythe Amerh ,trrtn-teon. Dead ,,,ripet under thll.. frr, allAc# on rico's forces V tit -- \rt . ..;tu.lea m Army. n when earketi? A on the ith. Oft famished mules they had ridden, over one thousand and fifty miles, from Santa Fe. Next came Captains Gibson and Gillespie, with twenty of their volunteers : Lieutenant Davidson, with the two howitzers, managed by dragoons, brought up the rear. The remainder of the force, dragoons, volunteers, and citizens, were left to protect and bring on the baggage, under command of Major Swords, the quartermaster of the expedition. Drawn nigh to the enemy, Captain Johnson made a furious charge upon them with his advanced guard, promptly supported by General Kearny and Captain Moore. The Californians withstood not the shock, but pouring in a continual fire, gave way and retreated to an open plain about half a mile distant. Eagerly Captain Moore, with the few dragoons on horseback, pursued ; the tired mules slowly seconded the ardour of their riders, and soon an interval was left between the hot pursuers and these thus retarded in their support. Well mounted, and among the most expert horsemen in the world, the enemy rallied in full force, took advantage of the interval, charged with desperation on the advance, and from their overwhelming superiority in numbers, made dreadful havoc with their long lances. For five minutes they furiously held the ground, for five minutes the rapidly thinning handful around the general bore up against the storm : the support came up, hand to hand the fierce but unequal fight continued for half an hour ; then the outnumbering foe was repulsed, and fled from the field, to which they returned not again. The affrighted and wholly unmanageable mules had refused to bring their howitzers into the fight. With the dawning of the day, the smoke cleared off from the battle-field, permitting the victors to collect their wounded and their dead. Of officers and men, sixteen wounded and nineteen slain, gave melancholy evidence of how hardly the victory had been won. The killed were Captains Johnson and Moore, Lieutenant Hammond, Sergeants Moore and Whitehurst,. Cor- porals Clapin and West, and ten privates of the st dragoons, one private of the topographical corps, and one volunteer. The wounded included General Kearny, Captains Gibson and Gillespie, Lieutenant Warner, Mr. Robideaux, Sergeant Cox, and ten privates of the dragoons. On the next day, the gallant Sergeant Cox died of his wounds. Many of the survivors had from two to ten lance-wounds; Captain Gillespie and Lieutenant Warner had three each ; the general two, and these so serious, that during the remainder of the day, Captain Turner assumed the command. The loss of the enemy was not ascertained, they having carried off in their final retreat all the wounded and the dead, excepting six ; but it must have been severe. Having been assured that the dead, wherever buried, would be dug up, that the bodies might be stripped of their clothing, the sorrowing victors bound on mules the remains of their fallen companions, with the intention of taking them to San Diego, there to be decently interred ; but the number of mules required for conveyance of the wounded, caused this intention to be abandoned, and the men were engaged in fortifying the camp for the night. During the whole of the th, the enemy hovering around, kept the camp in constant and harassing excitement. Early in the day three of Captain Gillespie's volunteers were despatched to San Diego, thirty-nine miles distant, to procure conveyances for the wounded. As night closed in, under a willow that grew beside the battle-field, were laid to rest, in all possible silence and secrecy, the departed brave. Thus to lay down for ever in the strange land, far away from kindred and from home, those whom a march together of two thousand miles, common hopes and hardships, common dangers, enjoyments and privations, had familarized and endeared, was to the survivors of this little band of brothers no common grief. On the ground where they were forced to encamp, rocks and cacti afforded scarcely so much of level space as to accommodate the wounded during the damp, cold night, and sleep was denied even after thirty hours of ceaseless exertion and fatigue. The dawn of the th called to new efforts and new endurance ; the column was now reduced to one-third of its number, worn down with toil, ragged and emaciated, with mules fast falling away, horses dead, and provisions exhausted. By the skill and untiring assiduities of Dr. Griffin, the only surgeon of the party, the wounded men were now capable of being removed in rudely formed ambulances, and General Kearny was enabled to resume the command. Pursuing the San Barnardo road towards San Diego, they found the enemy occupying the hills in their front, but retiring as they approached. At the rancheria of San Barnardo, they watered their horses and procured refreshments for the sick, then moving towards the bed of the river, drove before them many cattle, a much needed' supply. These, however, had soon to be 'abandoned, for the enemy debouching from the hills in the rear, sent forward a party in full gallop to seize a hill commanding the road, and these it became necessary to dislodge. To accomplish this, was but the work of a few moments, and the task of the advance. The Californians had five or six killed and wounded in the skirmish, which entailed on the victors no other loss than that of the cattle, one sufficiently serious under the circumstances. Against a force so numerically superior and so splendidly mounted, it was impossible to move; while the ambulances required the services of half the effective men ; and even with the tenderest care in transporting them, the sufferings of the sick were exceedingly distressing. Here, therefore, the general encamped, to wait until the wounded could be carried on horseback, resolved then to cut his way to San Diego. A flag of truce sent in by Pico on the morning of the th, led to a conference ; he wishing to exchange four Americans, whom he had captured, for an equal number of Californians. Unfortunately there was but one Californian prisoner in camp ; but this one was well exchanged for Burgess, who was one of those despatched to Commodore Stockton on the th. He and his companions had arrived safely in San Diego, and on their return had, previously to their capture, concealed their letters under a tree ; but on subsequent examination, it was found that these had been abstracted. That night, Lieutenant Beall of the navy, Mr. Carson, and an Indian, voluntarily went forth, on the perilous attempt of reaching San Diego, nine-and-twenty miles distant, and every pass towards which was now occupied by the enemy. During four days' rest in this camp, as for many days before, their food was the meat of the poor worn-down horses and mules ; but the wounded were going on well, and on the evening of the th all save two were declared by the surgeon ready for the saddle. Orders were given to resume the march next morning. Before daybreak, they were joyously surprised by the arrival in camp of Lieutenant Gray, of the navy, sent out from San Diego by Commodore Stockton, with an escort of one hundred tars and eighty marines. Beall, Carson, and the Indian, had safely arrived in San Diego. The gallant new-corners found glad employment until day, in distributing among the naked and famished soldiers their own clothing and provisions. By ten in the forenoon of the th December, the united force was on its route. Before them the enemy precipitately fled, leaving behind most of the cattle, for which they had so eagerly contested. This day first burst upon their view, from one of the hills, the broad Pacific, henceforth to be their country's western boundary. On the th they entered San Diego, having thus terminated the arduous march of one thousand and ninety miles from Santa Fe. The preparations for the contemplated expedition against Ciudad de los Angelos, distant one hundred and forty-five miles, having been steadily pushed forward, at the request of Commo- dore Stockton, who had in September assumed the title of Governor of California, General Kearny assumed the command, and went forth from San Diego, on the th of December, at the head of about five hundred men. The force was constituted thus : sixty dismounted dragoons consolidated into one company, under Captain Turner ; fifty Californian volunteers, commanded by Captain Gillespie ; the remainder, sailors and marines, acting as infantry and artillery, with six great guns of various calibre ; Lieutenant Emory acted as assistant adjutant-general, and Commodore Stockton accompanied the army. Progress was sloN. the oxen used in the wagons being poor, and the wagons theinselves of the miserable construction of the country. No enemy was seen until January the th, when they showed themselves in full force, under their acting governor and captain-general, Flores, occupying with six hundred men and four pieces of artillery the heights in front commanding the San Gabriel, and evidently prepared to dispute the passage of that river. The troops were immediately disposed in the order best adapted to meet a wholly mounted force, a strong party of skirmishers being thrown forivard to cover the front, the wagons and baggage occupying the centre, and the remainder of the command protecting the flanks. The position of the enemy was highly favourable. A ridge fifty feet high ran parallel with the bank on his side of the river, on which he posted his artillery, and just behind this hill, on either flank, a squadron of his cavalry awaited the favourable moment for a charge. As the leading battalion, deploying as skirmishers, reached the middle of the stream, the battery on the hill opened upon them, and made the water fly around with grape and round-shot. The artillery tars were now ordered forward, the guns were quickly unlimbered, pulled over cheerily by the men, and planted in counter battery on the enemy's side. And soon, and briskly, they sent forth their thundering replies to the hill, making the fire from the latter wild and uncertain. Thus covered, the baggage and cattle were with great toil, forced across the river, which flowed one hundred yards wide and about twenty inches deep, over a bottom of quicksand. Under a natural banquette, breast-high, on the right bank, the troops deployed into line, while a heavy shower of round-shot and of grape passed chiefly over their heads. In an hour and twenty minutes the baggage-train had all crossed, the artillery of the enemy was silenced, and the troops were in full charge upon the hill. Half way between the bank and the hill, the foe made a furious charge on the left flank, while the right was menaced at the same moment. A volley or two repulsed the hot assailants, and in ten minutes more the heights were carried, and our troops masters of the field. Pursuit was impossible, from the wretched condition of the wagon-train, which, bearing provisions for the garrison intended to be left in the city of Los Angelos, could not be abandoned. On the battle-field the army encamped that night. Next morning, the cattle but little refreshed, the route was leisurely pursued across the Mesa, a wide plain, lying between the San Gabriel and the stream, called indifferently the Rio San Fernando, and the Rio de los Angelos. The enemy hung continually on the front and flanks for a distance of about six miles, then concentrated their force at a crest and ravine, that commanded the road on the right. Here General Flores addressed his men, urging them to make one more bold and determined charge, to which he promised certain success. Deviating to the left of the road, to deprive him of the vantage-ground for his artillery, the army steadily pursued its march, disregarding the fire which the enemy opened with his artillery from a distance. Flores now deployed his force, making a horse-shoe in the column's front, and opening with his nine-pounders a galling fire on the right flank. A halt was called to silence this annoyance, which was a fifteen minutes' work, and the order was again NFIIIIII;Nyy,yNo \ rdr$ „„ c,% 'kr plains " ed {$' ',,,,,- -	 voiiit;e ifft. A .	P N. SKETCH or THE BATTLE ot• l`f	' l'ITER CALIFORNIA . Fought )ftween the Americans aml Mexicans ay.\.'Lt.r.... . , • given to move forward, when down came the enemy at once on the left flank and the rear in menacing charge. One volley from the small-arms brought them to a check; a round of grape completed their repulse. The accoutrements of their fallen horses, with their dead and wounded, they bore away on horseback to the hills. Now, three o'clock in the afternoon, the town was distant only four miles. It was known to abound in wine and agues ardiente ; with wise precaution, therefore, the general led his little army of conquerors across the stream, and encamped some three miles below the town. During these two days, the loss on the part of the Americans was small. In the spirited battle of the th, one seaman, acting artilleryman, was killed, one volunteer and eight seamen wounded, of whom two subsequently died. In the continued skirmishing and annoying affairs of the th, one dragoon and two seamen were severely wounded ; Capt. Gillespie of the volunteers, and Lieutenant Rowan of the navy, were slightly contused by spent balls. Their extraordinary expertness on horseback, enabled the enemy to carry off all their dead and wounded, and so conceal their loss, but it must have been comparatively great ; it was estimated at eighty-five. Next morning the army entered, without encountering opposi- tion, the City of the Angels, the capital of California, and hitherto the centre of the wealth and population of that province, as well as the focus of revolution, and the point of military power. On the th, Colonel Fremont, with four hundred volunteers raised in the neighbourhood of the Sacramento, reported himself at the capital. With him a portion of the enemy had on the preceding day entered into terms of capitulation, among them Andreas Pico, second to Flores in command of the insurgents, who had by breaking his parole forfeited his life, but by this capitulation procured pardon. Don Jose Mariana Flores made good his escape to Sonora. The revolt was now effectually quelled, and the country peaceably submitted to American authority. At the meeting of these three distinguished officers, Kearny, Stockton, and Fremont, each of whom had so materially contributed to the success and the glory of their country's arms, difficulties unhappily arose, as to their relative powers and position in the conquered territory. About the th of January, Commodore Stockton, acting, according to his own opinion, in strict conformity with the instructions received by his predecessor in the naval command, and by himself, proceeded to organize a temporary civil government for California, and nominated Colonel Fremont as governor. Against this procedure General Kearny protested, and in writing assured the commodore, that to him (General K.) the President had confided the sole right of erecting a civil government in California. Commodore Stockton, relying on his instructions, refused to acknowledge General Kearny's authority. Colonel Fremont abided by the decision of the commodore. The instructions, under which General Kearny claimed his right to sole authority in the territorial government of the conquest, have been materially embodied in the preceding chapter. For the more ready comprehension of the counter-claim, a brief retrospect may be desirable. By a te secret and confidential order" from the Navy Department, bearing date June , , Commodore Sloat, then commanding the United States naval forces in the Pacific, was instructed, so soon as he should ascertain beyond a doubt that Mexico had declared war against the United States, to tt at once employ the force under his command to the best advantage," tc to at once possess himself of the port of San Francisco, and blockade or occupy such other ports as his force may permit." In subsequent orders from the same department, under date respectively, May th, May th, and June th, , those instructions were confirmed, and the commodore was expressly directed to exercise all the rights that belonged to him as commander-inchief of a belligerent squadron ; while in every communication the importance was urged of establishing friendly relations with the people of California, and making the occupation of the ports a benefit to the inhabitants. On the th of June, Commodore Sloat, then at Mazatlan, in the Savannah, received intelligence of the actual outbreak of hos.. tilities, and properly considered these as justifying his commencing offensive operations on the west coast, under the order of June, . Immediately he set sail for Monterey, landed the necessary force of seamen and marines, entered that town, hoisted the standard of the United States, without bloodshed or strenuous opposition, and issued hii proclamation, declaring, among other things, California henceforth to be a portion of the United States. Other ports were similarly occupied, and possession of the coast, with its bays and harbours, secured. About the same time, Lieutenant-Colonel Fremont, then near the settlement of Sonoma, on the bay of San Francisco, with his topographical corps, had been compelled in self-defence to hoist the American flag and raise a volunteer force, in consequence of the extraordinary, unprovoked, and faithless conduct of De Castro, governor of Upper California. The design of the latter was avowed, to attack and destroy, not only Fremont's party, but all the American settlers. Hemmed in by a treacherous foe, more than tenfold his number, Fremont turned on his pursuers, defeated them in fiercely contested engagements, and on the th of July, at Sonoma, headed the American and foreign residents in a declaration of independence, and war against De Castro and his troops, as the only means of safety. A few days afterwards an officer from Commodore Sloat brought intelligence of his capture of Monterey. Colonel Fremont, then leaving some fifty men in garrisons behind him, set forth in pursuit of De Castro with one hundred and sixty riflemen, when he received instructions from Commodore Sloat to march upon Monterey. On the th July Commodore Stockton succeeded to the naval command, and therewith to the authority conveyed in the instructions from the Naval Department. He declared the whole coast of California to be in a state of blockade, proclaimed himself governor and commander-in-chief of all the forces by sea and land, and claimed by right of conquest the whole territory of Upper and Lower California as a territory of the United States, a form of government for which he forthwith caused to be promulgated. He next organized the cc California Mounted Riflemen," of the men who had followed Fremont, received them as volunteers into the service of the United States, appointing Captain Fremont their major, and Lieutenant Gillespie, of the marines, their captain. Directing Major Fremont to proceed to San Diego in the sloop-of-war Cyane, with his one hundred and sixty riflemen and seventy marines, for the purpose of intercepting or capturing De Castio, the commodore himself set sail for San Pedro, and uniting their forces, on the th of August, both these commanders marched upon, and took without opposition, Ciudad de los Angelos. Thus unvarying success had already crowned the arms of the republic, and the whole country was under dominion of her flag, ere yet the despatch of the th of May, and the President's proclamation in reference to the war, had reached the officers engaged. Two subsequent despatches from the Secretary of the Navy, bore date July th and August th. They embodied the substance of previous instructions, and added, that the object of the United States was, under its rights as a belligerent nation, to possess itself entirely of Upper California. That object had reference to ultimate peace with Mexico ; and if, at that peace, the basis of the IAN possidetis should be established, the government expected, through the forces under the commodore, to be found in actual possession of Upper California. This would bring with it the necessity of a civil administration. Such a government should be established under the commodore's protection. Under all these instructions, directed at various times to the commander of the naval forces in the Pacific, Commodore Stockton now asserted his superior authority in California ; and, disregarding the protest and representations of General Kearny, persisted in confirming the appointment, as governor, of Colonel Fremont General Kearny withdrew to San Diego, where on the th of January he was joined by the Mormon battalion, four hundred strong, under Lieutenant-Colonel Cooke, of the d U. S. dragoons. This corps arrived in excellent condition and fine health, having had no serious loss during their long march, and in their appearance, conduct, and discipline, reflecting the highest honour on their military chief. On the d of January, Commodore W. B. Shubrick, in the razee Independence, arrived at Monterey, and assumed command of all the naval forces, and on the st of February issued his first general order. General Kearny, leaving the Mormons at San Diego, went on board the Cyane, and arrived at Monterey on the th of February. The interview and arrangements between these two officers proved perfectly harmonious. Commodore Shubrick, and subsequently Commodore Biddle, his senior, cordially supported the views of the general, and co-operated with him in carrying out his instructions. In consequence, the following general order was by them jointly promulgated :— gc To all whom it may concern, be it known—That the President of the United States, desirous to give and secure to the people of California a share of the good government and happy civil organization enjoyed by the people of the United States, and to protect them at the same time from the attacks of foreign foes, and from internal eommotions, has invested the undersigned with separate and distinct powers, civil and military ; a cordial cooperation in the exercise of which, it is hoped and believed, will have the hippy results desired. To the commander-in-chief of the naval forces, the President has assigned the regulation of the import trade, with conditions on which vessels of all nations (our own as well as foreign) may be admitted into the ports of the territory, and the establishment of all port-regulations. To the commanding military officer, the President has assigned the direction of the operations on land, and has invested him with administrative functions of government over the people and territory occupied by the forces of the United States. Done at Monterey, capital of California, this st day of March, A. D. . W. BRANDFORD SHUBRICK, Commander-in-chief of the Naval Forces. S. W. KEARNY, B Gen. U. S. A. and Governor of California." On the same day the general issued his proclamation as governor, promising respect and protection to person, property, and religion, absolving the inhabitants from all ties of allegiance to Mexico, assuring the people of the early establishment of a free government, and earnestly urging peace and union, and combined efforts to promote the prosperity and happiness of the country. Early in February Captain Tompkins and his company of the d United States artillery arrived in the transport Lexington, with -pounders, mortars, ordnance stores, and intrenching tools : the company was stationed in Monterey. On the th of March, Colonel Stevenson arrived at San Francisco, in the ship T. H. Perkins, with two hundred and fifty men of the New York California volunteers— and a few days after, other transports brought the remainder of that regiment, numbering, in full, eight hundred men, and including many mechanics : they brought with them, in addition to six pieces of artillery and a supply of small-arms, machinery for saw and grist-mills, mechanics' tools, and other materiel of industry. With these forces little fears could be entertained that the peace of the territory would again be easily disturbed. Settlements were made and towns founded, confidence was restored, and industry, released from terror and doubt, was now active, under the impartial and wise protection of the American flag. The work which had been assigned to General Kearny was completed—the object of his government fully achieved—the honour of his country maintained and exalted—his name and the fame of his little army written imperishably on the brightest pages of that country's history. On the st of May, , having transferred to Colonel R. B. Mason the authority and duties of governor and commander-in-chief, the general, with his stair and a small party of officers, set out on his return to the United States. Difficult and hazardous was his route of two thousand two hundred miles across the continent. On the d of August he arrived at Fort Leavenworth. A little more than one year had sped by since last its flag saluted him—the story of those intervening twelve months has yet in military annals to find a parallel. CHAPTER XV. Colonel Doniphan'a Expedition against the Navajoee—Treaty with the Indiana— The Zumiana—March upon Chihuahua—Battle of the Brazito—Town and Valley of El Paso—March continued—Enemy's position at the Sacramento—Battle of the Sacramento—Occupation of Chihuahua—March for Saltillo—Affaire in New Mexico—Plot discovered—Second Conspiracy—Governor Bent murdered —Pueblo de Taos—Insuirection quelled. FULFILMENT of the promises of protection made to the people of New Mexico by their conquerors, was neither forgotten, nor delayed. From La Joya, on his route to the Pacific, General Kearny addressed to Colonel Doniphan at Santa Fe an express, instructing him to defer his contemplated movement on Chihuahua, and to proceed with his regiment into the hill country of the Navajoes, to effect the restitution of all prisoners and property taken by stealth or violence from the newly-subjugated people, and to exact from that half-civilized, fierce, and powerful tribe, ample security for their future good conduct. These warlike Indians have, for full two centuries, been the terror and the scourge of the New Mexican border. From the range of mountains bounding the valley of the Del North, their country stretches away down the tributaries of the Colorado, and towards the settlements of California on the west, the Cordilleras, and the highlands beyond, affording them strongholds and almost inaccessible retreats. Without towns or permanent abodes, they live chiefly on horseback, and in the open air, wealthy in countless herds of horses, cattle, and sheep yet, ever at the dictate of wild caprice, or in the spirit of a long-cherished hate, descending on the villages and settlements of the valley, plundering and destroying () wherever they come. In their latest incursion they had slain seven or eight men, taken off captive as many women and children, and driven away into their highlands ten thousand head of sheep, cattle, and mules. Leaving the town of Santa Fd, on the th of October, Colonel Doniphan divided his command into separate detachments, and invaded the Navajo country by three routes. The season was far advanced, and winter had set in with more than usual severity. For artillery and wagons the country was wholly impracticable ; mules with pack-saddles, therefore, alone accompanied the force, which, without tents, almost destitute of shoes and clothing, and stinted in provisions, pursued, over snow-clad mountains, and through precipitous ravines, barricaded by stupendous cliffs, and paved with huge masses and sharp fragments of the living rock, its strangely perilous way. Their daily march was through snows gathered deeply in the gorges, up mountain walls pendent with icicles, along narrow ledges overhanging appalling chasms, where an error or a stumble would have hurled horse and man among jagged and pointed rocks, hundreds of feet below. As the days passed on, the cold became intense ; yet frequently at night, the adventurous soldiers laid down their weary bodies, wrapped in blankets and skins, on the rugged earth or the frozen snow, and rose in the morning from beneath a newly-fallen coverlet of snow, with limbs benumbed, and icicles pendent in clusters from beard and hair. Even when they reached the diversified table-lands and the rich valleys, the snow continued equally deep, and the cold no less severe. Success crowned such fearless resolution. The Mexicans looked with undisguised amazement on what they considered the extreme of temerity ; the braver Indians, with respect upon the strangers whose skill and courage they could appreciate, a respect soon deepened into reverence by the generous confidence, the fairness and fidelity in every instance displayed. Every portion of their country was visited, and with incredible toil about three-fourths of the adult males of their tribe, including all the head chiefs, were collected to a conference at the Op Oso, the Bear Spring, situate in the Navajo country. And here, after two days' deliberations, was made a permanent treaty of peace and amity between the American people—in which term were specially included the New Mexicans and the Pueblo Indians—and this hitherto irreconcileable and tameless race. To the memorandum of this treaty, signed on the d of November, by Colonel Doniphan, Lieutenant-Colonel Jackson, and Major Gilpin, fourteen Indian chiefs appended their marks. Returning through the large and singularly built town of Zuni, situate about two hundred miles west of the Del Norte, and containing an interesting, intelligent, and honest population of about six thousand persons, who look upon the New Mexicans as an inferior race, and are said to have preserved to this day the ancient Aztec character, arts, and habits, Colonel Doniphan was enabled by skilful diplomacy to effect a reconciliation and treaty of peace between them and the Navajoes, hitherto mutual foess Thus, in despite of physical privations, in the face of the obstacle. of nature, and the incessant hostility of the elements, the important object of the expedition was accomplished. By different routes, each rivalling each in dreariness, difficulty, and danger, and all by the Mexicans declared to be impracticable, the several detachments of the force arrived, between the th and th of December, at Valverde, on the Del Norte, the appointed rendezvous. The advance, consisting of three hundred men under command of Major Gilpin, took up the line of march southward from Valverde, on the th of December. Lieutenant-Colonel Jackson followed, with two hundred men, on the th. While yet Colonel Doniphan was in the Navajo country, Lieutenant-Colonel Mitchell, accompanied by Captain Thompson, of the United States st dragoons, had been despatched by Colonel Price from Santa Fd with an escort of between ninety and one hundred men, volunteers from the d mounted regiment, and the light artillery of Missouri, with the view of opening a communication with General Wool. This force having passed down the valley of the Del Norte, joined the column of Colonel Doniphan, who, thus strengthened, left Valverde, with the remainder of his command, on Dec. th. The whole force was eight hundred and fifty-six effective men, armed with rifles—no artillery. Before leaving Valverde, information of the advance of the enemy to the defence of El Paso, on the Chihuahua road, induced Colonel Doniphan to send orders to Santa F for Major Clarke, of the Missouri artillery, to join him at the earliest possible moment, with one hundred men, and a battery of howitzers. That union could not be effected until the st of February following. The march lay along the Rio Grande to Fra Christobal, and thence across the dreary and dreaded desert, known by the appropriately ominous name El Jornada del Muerto, "the journey of the dead." On the d, at Dona Anna, the whole force was consolidated, and a number of traders, with over three hundred wagons, fell in with the baggage and provision trains in the rear. Certain intelligence now came that seven hundred men and six pieces of cannon had reached the pass of the river, sixty miles below. The column moved forward in gay anticipation on the d. About three o'clock in the afternoon of Christmas-day, after a merry march of eighteen miles, the advance of five hundred men was called to a halt, at the Brazito, or little arm of the river, for the purpose of encamping. The horses were unsaddled and let loose to graze, and the men, scattered in all directions, were busy in quest of wood and , water. Suddenly a thick cloud of dust arose and moved towards them from the direction of El Paso, and soon one of the advanced guard in full speed announced that the enemy was at hand. To the call of the bugle the men hastily collected ; time to horse there was not ; in open order, and on foot, the troops formed as skirmishers, the extremes of the wings thrown towards the river to protect the flanks, the baggage, and the traders' wagons. The enemy, under General Poncd de Leon, numbered twelve hundred and twenty men, of whom five hundred and thirty-seven were well-mounted and splendidly equipped lancers and dragoons, from Vera Cruz and Chihuahua; the remainder, infantry from Chihuahua and El Paso, with one -pound howitzer. To the east, within half a mile of the American troops, they drew up their line in gallant and imposing array, the Vera Cruz dragoons on the right, the Chihuahua Activo battalion on the left, the infantry and militia, with the howitzer, in the centre. From their marshalled ranks rode forward briskly a lieutenant bearing a black flag : he halted at a distance of about one hundred paces, and through the American interpreter delivered his presumptuous message, and received an approriate response. He came to demand that the commander of the column should go over to confer with his general, menacing, at the same time, that, unless the demand was complied with, they would charge and take him, adding that they gave no quarter and asked none. Receiving in reply a scornful defiance, he gracefully waved his black flag, and galloped back to the Mexican lines. Instantly and boldly their charge commenced, the Vera Cruz dragoons riding in firm array down on the left of the American line. The charge was coolly met, and when within a few rods a deadly volley, again repeated and again, rained in among them dreadful execution. The remainder of their force pressed forward simultaneously, and under cover of the intervening chaparral three rounds were fired by their whole line, seconded by the howitzer, before a single rifle was discharged in return. Colonel Doniphan had directed his men to lie down on their faces, and reserve their fire until the foe came within sixty paces. The LA a a JAL La a Kai. MPAALla V.	,r I manceuvre fully succeeded. The Mexicans, supposing they had caused great destruction in the quickly dropping ranks, pushed forward exultingly, when, suddenly rising, the whole centre and right wing sent forth a volley so terribly unerring, that the foe reeled, turned, and fled in irredeemable confusion, while the Howard county company, dashing into the melde, captured and bore away the cannon. Meantime, the ever vigilant and intrepid Captain Reid gallantly led up -,against the Vera Cruz dragoons, rallying on the left, twenty of his regiment who had succeeded in regaining the saddle. Furiously this little squad charged on, and into the force more than threefold their number, broke their ranks, and with their sabres hewed destructively around. Here, for full twenty minutes, the desperate fight continued. Another division of the enemy's horse, having outflanked the left of the line, and attacked the commissary and baggage train, were met by a well directed fire from the steady soldier-wagoners--and soon over every part of the field the foe was in disorderly flight. In the contiguous mountains they found refuge. The volunteer force in this engagement was under five hundred, the rear, under Lieutenant-Colonel Jackson, not having arrived until the battle was entirely ended ; their loss, none killed — seven wounded, all of whom recovered to participate in future struggles and renown. The strength of the enemy has been already given : their loss, so far as could be ascertained, exceeded seventy killed, and a hundred and fifty wounded, including their commanding officer, General Ponce de Leon. Besides the howitzer, a number of carbines, several stands of colours, a large quantity of ammunition and baggage, with ample store of provisions and delicious wines, were among the spoils. The latter supplied the victors no unwelcome feast for their merry Christmas night. Such was the battle of Brazito, the first in which the volunteers of the West crossed weapons with the foe. With troops fresh and vigorous, and outnumbering them in the proportion of five to two, their struggle was brief, their victory brilliant. Brighter laurels were none, than Missouri won that day. Proceeding with military precaution, in anticipation of another attack, the army entered without opposition the populous town of El Paso, on the th. Here it was ascertained that General Wool had not as yet advanced on Chihuahua. A forward movement under these circumstances was judged extremely hazardous, and therefore Colonel Doniphan resolved to await at this point the arrival of the artillery ordered from Santa Fe. The beautiful and fertile valley of El Paso extends along the Rio Grande about two-and-twenty miles, by an average breadth of ten, and is occupied by a peaceable population, whose settle- ments present the appearance of a continuous farm, thickly iiitervalled by orchards and vineyards. The fruits and wines of the valley are of unsurpassed excellence, the produce in grain abundant. By the capture of the town, Colonel Doniphan_was placed in possession of more than twenty thousand pounds of powder, lead, musket and great-gun cartridge, grape and canister shot, and of five hundred stands of small arms, four hundred lances, four pieces of cannon, and several stands of colours. Finding that, contrary to representatious industriously circulated among them, and unblushingly put forward even by their chief officers and clergy, the Americans behaved themselves in the captured city with the greatest forbearance, order, respect, and humanity, the inhabitants soon abandoned their doubts and hostility, and gratefully repaid such unexpected conduct by friendly and generous hospitality. The men now fared sumptuously every day, purchasing in the well supplied markets the more substantial food they desired, and having kindly pressed upon them the rich fruits, luscious wines, and other luxuries of the place. Hours of reasonable relaxation, and the intercourse of amity with the citizens, alternated with company and regi- mental drills and other military exercises, and the preparation of supply and outfit for the march on Chihuahua. Events in New Mexico caused the detention for several weeks of the artillery. At length Colonel Price found himself in a position to comply with Colonel Doniphan's order, and despatched Major Clark with one hundred and seventeen men, and six pieces of cannon, which, after extraordinary exertion and toil through the deserts and deep snows, reached El Paso on the st of February. On the th, the column was on march for Chihuahua. It was an enterprise pre-eminently perilous ; and the national heart beat more quickly in suspense for the fate of the heroic army, thus thrown out upon their own unaided resources, in the very centre of innumerous foes, and encompassed by natural obstacles still more to be dreaded. We must not stay to record the hardships they endured, and the dangers they encountered from the deserts, the flinty canons, and fire on the prairie. The force consisted of nine hundred and twenty-four effective men ; of whom one hundred and seventeen officers and privates were of the artillery, ninety-three of Colonel Mitchell's escort, and the remainder of the st mounted volun- teers, all of Missouri. The merchant-train under their escort numbered three hundred and fifteen wagons ; and, at the recom- mendation of Colonel Doniphan, the merchants and teamsters organized themselves into a well-armed and highly efficient corps of about one hundred and fifty men, in two companies, commanded respectively by Captains Skillman and Glasgow, with Samuel C. Owens elected their major. On the th, they reached the shallow, brackish Laguna de Encenillas, about twenty miles long and three miles wide, two hundred and seven miles below El Paso, and seventy-four from Chihuahua. Previous rumours now shaped themselves into intelligence, that about twenty-five miles in advance, and near the margin of the lake, the enemy was in force at Inseneas, the country-seat of Don Angel Trias, governor of Chihuahua. Arrived at Inseneas on the evening of the th, they found it evacuated by the military; and on the following evening, at the Fort of Sans, they learned from their spies that the enemy, in great force, had fortified the pass of the Sacramento river, about fifteen miles north of the city. By the authorities of Chihuahua the approach of the American troops had been for a long time expected, and extensive preparations made to obstruct their advance. In full confidence of the result, the legislature of the department had in session determined that Doniphan's men, when captured, should be stripped of arms and money, and sent bound, on foot, to the city of Mexico ; and that no delay might occur, a quantity of cord was provided, and cut into suitable lengths, for tying the prisoners. Governor Frias strenuously promoted the arrangements made under direction of Don Jose A. Heredia, commandant-general of Durango, Chihuahua, Sonora, and New Mexico, aided by Generals Garcia Conde, Justiniani, and Uguarte. The position commanding the road and pass was well chosen. Two rivulets, rising in the mountains westward of the valley of the Sacramento, cross the valley in an easterly direction ; then the northern of these streams, the Arroyo Seco, bending to the south, meets the other, the Arroyo Sacramento, and with it forms the Rio Sacramento, which flows into the Conchas, a tributary of the Rio Grande del Norte. Across the peninsular plateau formed by these rivulets, the main road leads from north to south : on its left the ground abruptly rises in a bench, sixty feet high, sloping upwards from all directions to the north-east corner, where it is crowned by the rocky height of the Cerro Frijoles, one hundred and fifty feet above the plain. The sierras south of the Arroyo Sacramento come at right angles in upon that stream, their easternmost advance, the Cerro Sacramento, narrowing the valley to a breadth of one mile. From the Cerro Frijoles along the northern front of the eminences, and thence southwardly along the whole bench overhanging the road, was erected a continued line of redoubts and intrenchments, under the superintendence of General Conde, formerly Mexican Minister of War, and a man of science and skill. On the Cerro Sacramento also there was a strong battery, commanding the road as it approached the ferry below. In this seemingly secure position, the enemy, under command of the experienced officers before named, awaited the approach of the American troops. Their infantry was protected behind the redoubts and intrenchments ; their cavalry was drawn up in front of the redoubts four deep, and in reait'of the redoubts two deep, so as to mask them as far as practicable. Their force consisted of twelve hundred cavalry from Durango and Chihuahua, with the Vera Cruz dragoons, twelve hundred infantry from Chihuahua, three hundred artillerists, and fourteen hundred and twenty rancheros, badly armed with lassos, lances, and machetoes, or corn-knives ; ten pieces of field-artillery, and six culverins, or rampart-pieces. At sunrise, on the th of February, Colonel Doniphan took up the line of March. The traders' commissariat, and company wagons,more than three hundred in number, were arranged in four parallel columns, with intervals of fifty yards. In the central interval marched the artillery, the first battalion in the interval on the right, the second battalion in that on the left. In advance of all rode two hundred cavalry proper. Thus was the force rendered more compact, and its numbers effectually concealed, while the wagons could be at a moments notice converted into a ciral, to encompass and bulwark the troops. When arrived within one mile and a half of the formidable intrenchments, Colonel Doniphan, pushing still further forward the cavalry in advance, suddenly diverged to the right, so as to gain the easier though narrow ascent to the west. This the enemy perceived, and promptly endeavoured to prevent, by pushing forward in that direction one thousand cavalry, masking four pieces of cannon in their rear. 'nese were, nowever, anucipatea, arm oy a rapier movement the elevation was gained and the line formed before the enemy came within reach of the guns. The American line was now parallel with the main road, and fronting the enemy's defences on the west of the heights, with a marsh protecting its rear. Embarrassed by this well-conceived and quickly executed movement, the enemy halted, and a brisk fire from the now unmasked American battery, at the distance of nine hundred and fifty yards, commenced the action. The enemy unmasked his guns and replied. Then rapidly deploying into line, he brought up additional artillery from his trenches, and opened a heavy .fire, mainly directed against the battery under Major Clark, but with little effect. Not so with the fire from the American line—that proved effective, killing fifteen, wounding many, and dismounting one of the enemy's guns. At length, thrown into confusion and driven from his position, he slowly retreated behind his intrenchments, while Colonel Doniphan moved forward his whole line obliquely to the right, to obtain a more advantageous position. In this way they reached the southern edge of the plain, and within five hundred yards of the Mexican army, posted in a round battery and trenches, extending along the crest of the bench to the right. From this bench three trenches and a stone carol completed the connexion with the ford, and with the fortified rancho on the southern bank, beneath the Cerro Sacramento. Between the two armies, and beneath the Mexican works on the height in front, ran a deep gully, impassable for cannon, and greatly strengthening their position. To the right of the advancing American line, on an abrupt bench of the Sacramento Hill, a strong fort was occupied by a battery supported by cavalry, the balls and grape from which raked with a plunging fire the flank of the line, the whole of the passage down to the ford, and the ravine in front of the trenches. And now with greater fierceness the hot battle is renewed ; IT	Boit t)irt C hap « rya f • Most/ u te rancho icrurOeI r. 	The Lirur doffed . reorr‘nrri the	of ph, irurssisi/t •pd,whaerta,ae	thlC eh, Wrcdl,u nd etio,yr rrurtie ,pun the ,r	rtyht, rc l.,Y, ..ereit let; do reri•le of lie. ,-..!	.t lint" r. ift.r.f. L tiaittai ., En, n,V, I'orinueloru• ,^, ,ortle NEI	Th, late. metele ...	r-,boneterdi iii lid the Prr,I,• rotonyrteA,o' groe spas-aid (rrvo Priplea.wath n :rdirubf and Ihmerrr,	tist p.'isiso • el. rf,..,,	rd.+. diathrtssr, ."N)Yd..-	 ., lif YIP, frero e cr. rn	fr the ..tmer- iat.rrox inz otutr,rdMs 	Ow en...Fe:cm 	•rs. ,,••• 	killed r mter.,(rda	(VI .ifitehell I)	,. torn, rsl	, leeoItt.w ...I'll I pro ,t-ted	...^ I A- 'en tu r, r,ut MP	ZS- 	../ei	, III, .	Its (,+[r^ I. I.	Its,Ir....,s,	,	leiJr, ,V ihr ; f^•••,, Is. ..-seesss- rroLts	;- sd, hurgr IP. It, . irv, .^. . Ist,-. i,,,sttogore,, r I	,	• PIO	**triit.	• R.,	I l?f- the !or.- rrt-	. . I ,	s, is'	f;,• , •	''' jmorira 'Ix. strong, security and honour, ruin and shame, are dependent on its issue. On either side there is scornful resolve. With fourfold odds, embattled vantage-ground, and on their country's soil, these must not think of less than crushing victory. Those are American volunteers ; they have no time nor will for counting odds ; that victory must be theirs. There is glory to be won this day. A series of rapid movements and of brilliant charges divide the fight ; artillery, cavalry, and dismounted men press emulously forward. On the main central battery of the foe the foremost onset is directed ; there Weightman with his two howitzers, and Reid, Hudson, and Parsons, are ordered to charge. By some mischance the order reaches not the latter two ; Reid is already, where he ever is, in front, and on the foe. Weightman's guns come full gallop to the gully, turn it by the left, and unlimbering within fifty yards of the well-manned intrenchment, open their effective salutation of canister and grape. The courtesy is warmly returned. The horsemen, some leaping the gully, and others riding round it, have charged up the slope. Their impulse is resistless, and for a moment the battery is silenced ; but the numbers of the enemy are as yet overwhelming, and Reid's gallant men, met by dense masses thronging the breastworks, and sending forth a ceaseless hail of bullets, are forced to oblique to the left, and seek the intervals of the redoubts through which to charge. Here many are wounded, Reid is unhorsed, and the chivalrous Owens, who had volunteered in this charge, is slain. Hudson, anticipating his commander's order, and Parsons, demanding permission to charge, are now up the slope and in the hottest of the fray. Gilpin, with the second battalion, has deployed to the left at a gallop, his men have dismounted, and are running up the hill to the support of their brethren in arms. Mitchell with his mounted riflemen have advanced on the right ; having reached the ravine, they too dismount, and charge as skirmishers on the Mexican position, which is with much gallantry maintained, until, within five-and-twenty yards, the rifle tells on every head raised above the breastworks, with fatally unerring aim. Weightman presses on the intrenchments, regardless of obstacles ; and within a few feet of the ditches, and in the midst of a cross-fire from three directions, opens his fire to the right and to the left. The work is furious now. Doniphan is there to order, to encourage, and to lead. No officer, no man fails, or falls short of the leader's hopes. From right to left along the whole line of redoubts, the brisk and deadly fire of the American rifles is poured in. Horse, howitzers, and foot, in one simultaneous charge they dash upon the works of the enemy ; to the very brink of the strong redbubts they advance and attack with their sabres. Long and obstinately are the works defended ; now they are cleared, and the foe is sent whirling in flight across the plain. Meantime, under a heavy cross-fire from the battery on the Cerro Sacramento, Clark is bringing up, as fast as practicable, the main battery of four -pounders, followed by the wagon-train under. escort of its own staunch companies. He opens upon the enemy's extreme right, from which an incessant fire had hitherto been kept up; and soon two of their guns are dismounted, the battery silenced, and the enemy dislodged from the redoubt on the Cerro Frijoles. A body of Mexican lancers attempt to outflank the left of the American line, and attack the wagon-train ; on them, Clark again opens his untired battery, and a destructive fire of grape and spherical case-shot has cleared them away. Bravely the enemy has fought, and gallantly have Heredia and Condd striven for victory. Before the volunteers they are borne headlong down, their intrenchments are abandoned, their guns deserted, and by both wings of the conquering force, with the merciless howitzers, they are hotly pursued towards the mountains beyond the Frijoles height, and away down the ravine of the Arroyo Seco. Repeated discharges of Clark's guns disorder, while they expedite this retreat. But all is not over yet. The main battery on the mountain bench beyond the Arroyo Sacramento, consisting of six of their best and heaviest guns,.supported by eight hundred cavalry, continues, as it has done during the heat of the engagement, to pour down a constant and heavy fire. Mitchell and Jackson, obeying the order to remount their men, and accompanied by the howitzers, charge across the main road, and round the rancho, up the ascent to the rear of this position. Gilpin, with his second battalion, on foot, crosses the Sacramento rivulet higher up, and scales the rough mountain, to come down on the enemy from the other side ; while Clark, occupying that one of the enemy's deserted intrenchments nearest the Cerro Sacramento, twelve hundred and twenty-five yards distant, tries upon it the effect of his well-used battery. His first fire has dismounted one of the enemy's guns. They are of greater calibre, and their elevated position gives them a plunging fire into the intrenchment, but a third shot from below has cut in two one of their ammunition wagons. Brisk and precise is the discharge of the American guns, and their horsemen are now seen ascending the hill in full gallop. Further struggle is vain. Their guns and ammunition are abandoned, their colours flung down : as men astounded by the force of an incredible calamity, they fly in wild disorder, they are pursued for a short distance—they have disappeared. Thus ended the battle of the Sacramento, which had lasted above three hours, was resolutely contested, and most nobly Nylon. For the skill of the commanders, the discipline of the men, the brilliant daring and resistless energy of all, it tells its own tale. The Mexican force in the engagement numbered upwards of four thousand two hundred men ; their loss was three hundred and four killed on the field, a still larger number wounded, many mortally, and above forty prisoners, together with a large quantity of provisions, all their artillery and mules, wagons, ammunition, imple- ments, small-arms, and colours. The American loss was one killed, and eleven wounded—three of them mortally. A detachment of the American army took possession of the city of Chihuahua on the st of March, and the following day the whole army entered it and took quarters. On the th of April Colonel Doniphan resumed his march, and on the d of May, , reported to General Wool at Saltillo. On the th they reported to General Taylor at Monterey, and reached St. Louis on the d of July following, after a march which in interest and incident far transcended the famous " Retreat of the Ten Thousand." The route from Chihuahua to Saltillo was no less arduous, no less toilsome and dangerous, than those through which we have already accompanied the men of Missouri. For details of their progress we have not time. The brilliant affair of El Poso must alone detain us for a moment in our rapid survey. The good people of the rich and beautiful city of Parras had received with hospitality, and treated with kindness, the soldiers of General Wool's command, and to his sick especially extended, generous attentions. Just now they were thrown into general gloom by an incursion of the robbing and murderous Camanches, who had descended from their mountain-holds on the fair valley, cruelly slaughtered several of the people, plundered and desecrated many abodes, driven off some five hundred head of cattle, and hurried away into captivity nineteen young persons, of both sexes, but mostly females. Ere yet they had made good their retreat to the mountains, and while meditating new outrages to add to their spoil, they found themselves face to face with a foe, other than they had ever met. Thus far had reached on the advance of the army, our gallant Captain Reid, ever present, whenever wanted. To him the injured people related the cause of their distress. The appeal was irresistible. The kindness shown to their sick and wounded compatriots, the volunteers could not forget ; and among the captives not a few were of that sex that always finds in the American arm a sure defence, of that sex that in Parras had been, as everywhere, the tenderest, most assiduous, most considerate, by the couch of pain. With fifteen of his men, Reid proffered to intercept the barbarous marauders at El Poso. Near this place, on the morning of the th of May, he met Lieutenant Gordon, sent forward with fifteen men from the main body, to provide water. United, they formed a band of some three or four-and-thirty men. By a skilful feint they drew the Indians, intent on further spoil, towards a hacienda, where Reid had concealed his force. The Camanches were sixty-five, well mounted and armed, elate with success, and strangers to defeat. When they had come within half a mile of the friendly hacienda, the order was given to Reid's band, to charge. Like the lightning flash, they were in among the surprised, but nothing-daunted foe. With desperate determination not to lose their rich booty, the latter fiercely fought for full two hours, yielding each foot of ground, only as it was made slippery in the blood of some newly fallen of their number. Reid was himself severely wounded in the face, and in the shoulder, in both places by steel-tipped arrows. Of his gallant corps of supporters, none was materially injured. The Indians lost seventeen killed on the field, including their chief, and had full five-and-twenty dangerously wounded. Thus severely chastised, the remnant found protection in the high grounds, leaving behind all the spoil they had lately acquired. The restoration of the captive youths and maidens to the bosoms of their delighted families, was more than compensation to the generous deliverers. Through the Prefect of the department of Parras, Don Jose Ignacio Arrabe, a letter of graceful acknowledgment and thanks was conveyed to the chivalrous leader and his corps of worthy brothers. WE turn now to take a hasty glance at events occurring in New Mexico, while thus the troops under Doniphan were passing in triumph through the centre of the enemy's country. Mr. Charles Bent, it will be remembered, had been by General Kearny constituted governor of New Mexico ; on the departure of Colonel Doniphan, the command of the troops remaining in the subjugated province devolved on Colonel Sterling Price. They consisted of his own regiment, the d Missouri mounted volunteers; an extra battalion, under Lieutenant-Colonel Willock ; the Laclede rangers, under Lieutenant Elliott; two hundred of the U. S. st dragoons, commanded by Captain Burgwin ; Angney and Murphy's battalion of infantry ; Fischer's company of light artillery, and some additional artillery and miscellaneous troops, under Lieutenants Dyer and Wilson, of the U. S. Army ; making an aggregate of nearly two thousand men. Of these a considerable number was sent out, in separate detachments, to stations throughout the province, for the threefold purposes of preserving health and activity among the men, securing forage for their beasts, and maintaining tranquillity. The large proportion of the troops, however, was detained to garrison Santa Fd. For such service the volunteers were little fitted ; and notwithstanding the strenuous efforts of the officers, deviations from good order, disregard of discipline, and fatal excesses and indulgences, were frequent. At the time of General Kearny-'s departure, all things at Santa F and throughout New Mexico wore the aspect of acquiescent tranquillity. Smiles and gaiety, and professions of cordial amity, were, however, but the skilfully assumed covering of deep discontent, jealousy, and hate, in the bosoms of very many. Early in December, the leading malcontents, including officers who had held rank under Armijo, displaced officials, and those generally to whom the old and corrupt system was gain, in midnight conclaves began to plot the overthrow of the existing government. Their plans were craftily laid, and approaching towards maturity—their several departments for action assigned, and consequent duties commenced—on the th of December, the church-bells at Santa Fe were to give the signal for a simultaneous revolt. The time was subsequently postponed, to insure more complete organization and more effective action, and the night of Christmas-eve was finally fixed on for the rising, which was to be universal and instantaneous. Counting on certain success, they had already nominated from among themselves Don Tomas Ortiz, as governor, and Don Diego Archuleta, as commander of the forces. By a female the whole plot was discovered, and revealed to Colonel Price. Several of those supposed to be implicated were at once arrested, and ample evidence obtained of the existence, character, and objects of the conspiracy. Ortiz and Archuleta by timely flight escaped arrest, and, from motives of politic clemency, the other arrested persons were discharged. But the contemplated rebellion seemed utterly crushed. This appearance was deceptive. With embittered determination, and with closer secrecy, the conspiracy was renewed. To it were committed the most influential men of the state ; the priests especially, bigoted in pro- portion to their ignorance, using all their authority to excite the people against the "heretic Americanos." Their teachings and exhortations were but too successful. The suppression of the embryo rebellion had been followed by a proclamation from Governor Bent, in which he addressed himself to the good sense as well as to the honour of the people, seeking to disabuse their minds of the absurd impressions which designing factionists had busied themselves to make, showing the folly and hopelessness of insurrection, and urgently inviting the co-operation of the people themselves in the peaceful struggle for common prosperity. Meantime the organization of the government in its inferior departments had gone on, and pari passe the enjoyment and Q relaxation of the soldiery in Santa Fe. Imprudence and excess counted many victims among the troops, and increasing familiarity with the city revellers and their habits, brought with it increase of sickness. To all this the conspirators were unceasingly awake. On the th of January, , Governor Bent, accompanied by several officials, left Santa Fe for San Fernando de Taos, in which place he had previously to his installation resided, and where he still had a house and estate., On the th, the refusal to release two Indians, incarcerated for some misdemeanour, was followed by the murder, in the most cruel manner, of the governor; the sheriff, Lee; the district-attorney, Leal; the prefect, Vigil, a Mexican ; a son of Judge Baubian ; and Harvimea, also a Mexican. In these inhuman murders Mexicans and Pueblo Indians were common actors. Nor was this the result of any sudden or unpremeditated outbreak. On the same day, seven Americans were in cold blood butchered at the Arroya Hondo, four others at the Moro town, and two at the Rio Colorado. By the alcalde of Moro, and the faithful gallantry of a Frenchman of Canada, letters were intercepted, in which, with revelations of the plot, were contained earnest invitations to the inhabitants along the Rio Abajo, and the northern portion of New Mexico, to strike for revenge, in union with their brethren of the other districts. From these letters it was further ascertained that the enemy, bent upon the extermination of the Americans and of all Mexicans in their confidence and friendship, was approaching Santa Fe, gathering in his advance upon this city accessions of force. In this movement the leaders were Tafoya, Pablo Chavez, Pablo Montoya, Cortez, and Tomas, a Pueblo Indian. Prudently anxious to meet the foe, ere yet increased by their anticipated reinforcements along their line of march, Colonel Price, leaving Lieutenant-Colonel Willock with a comparatively strong force in garrison at Santa Fe, went forth to meet the insurgents, on the morning of January d, at the head of three hun- died and fifty-three men, rank and file, supported by four mou tain howitzers, in charge of Lieutenant Dyer, United Stal Army. The weather was then merciless, but action was neci sary. Captain St. Vrain's company, the only mounted men the force, formed the advance, and early in the afternoon of th discovered the enemy in considerable strength, occupyi the high grounds commanding, and close to, the little town Canada, situated on a tributary of the Rio Grande. Two thousand strong, under command of Tafoya, Chavez, a Montoya, the foe had taken advantageous ground on both sic of the Chicito stream, and in three houses at the base of the hi] Promptly forming such line of battle as his force and circu stances directed, Colonel Price threw forward and across creek his four howitzers, from which, about two o'clock in afternoon, Lieutenant Dyer opened a brisk fire upon the hou: and the more distant height, occupied by the enemy. Meantii the dismounted men were moved up to a position, in some degi protected by the bluff bank of the stream from the Mexican fi] while Captain St. Vrain was despatched to protect and bring the wagon-train, already menaced by a large party. This servi satisfactorily effected, Angney and Murphy's infantry battah charged, and dislodged the enemy from the house opposite American right flank. This gallantly accomplished, a gene charge was ordered ; the same infantry battalion, supported two companies of the d Missouri, moved rapidly up one of the hi while St. Vrain by a circuit turned it, so as to cut off retre The artillery, supported by the remaining three companies Price's regiment, drove the enemy from some houses and densely wooded coral, and from the heights beyond. Till si set the struggle continued ; then the enemy, routed at all poin was seeking safety by flight. The nature of the-ground render pursuit hopeless, and the troops were for the night quartered the town. Next morning, they hesitatingly showed themseli on the distant heights ; but on the first intimation of a disposition to renew the intercourse of the preceding afternoon, they most unceremoniously decamped. The American loss in this affair of Canada was two killed and seven wounded. Of the latter was Lieutenant Irvine. The Mexicans acknowledged a loss of thirty-six killed and forty-five wounded. On the th, Colonel Price resumed his march towards Taos, whitherward the enemy had retreated, as to their stronghold. Next morning he was joined by Captain Burgwin with his own company of the st U. S., and Lieutenant Boone's company of the d Missouri, dragoons, all dismounted, and by Lieutenant Wilson, with a -pounder brought up from Canada. His whole force was now four hundred and seventy-nine rank and file, with whom he proceeded to La Joya, and there learned, on the th, that the gorge leading to Embudo was held in command by the enemy. The road by Embudo being impracticable for artillery or wagons, Captain Burgwin pushed forward with his own company, St. Vrain's, and White's, accompanied too by Adjutant Walker of the d Missouri, and Lieutenant Wilson—their conjoined force numbering one hundred and eighty men. The enemy, some six or seven hundred strong, was discovered occupying a formidable position on the mountain slopes, overhanging each side of the road, just where the gorge was so narrow, as scarcely to admit of the passage of three men abreast, and still further protected by dense brushwood and large fragments of detached rock. From the gallant force so numerically inferior, flanking parties were thrown out on either side, while St. Vrain, dismounting his men, advanced up the rugged and precipitous hill-face, whose trees lent aid to the climbing men. The brisk contest was still going on, when Captain Slack, with twenty-five mounted men, came up from La Joya, to lend aid. Another half hour, and the battle was decided—the pursuit of the foe occupied two hours. One killed and one severely wounded, bought this victory ; defeat cost the Mexicans and their Indian alli full twenty killed and sixty wounded. A white flag greet Captain Burgwin's entry into the town of Embudo. The march resumed led over the Taos Mountain, covered to depth of two feet with snow, through which the troops, wi admirable constancy and patience, trampled down a road for € artillery and wagons. On the d of February Colonel Prii marched, without meeting any show of resistance, through Si Fernando de Taos, and there ascertained that the enemy hi posted himself advantageously in the Indian village, Pueblo Taos, a strongly protected place a short distance in advanc Walls of adobd, or sun-dried bricks, with strong pickets, ai flanked by projecting buildings, supplied whatever was wantii to the means of defence afforded by the large church, two oth large structures rising in an irregular pyramid to the height seven or eight stories, and a number of smaller edifices. The were now occupied by Mexicans and Indians, numbering betwe( six and seven hundred. On the evening of the d, a warm fi was opened on the western flank of the church, from Lieutenai Dyer's battery of two howitzers and one six-pounder, and ke up for about two hours and a half; when, as the ammuniti( wagons had not yet come up, and the men were suffering severe from cold and fatigue, the colonel commanding withdrew thei for the night to San Fernando. Early on the morning of the th, the troops were in station f attacking the town. From the north and the west, a cross-fl: was briskly opened from the artillery under Lieutenants Dy and Hassendaubel, the former supported by Captain Angney battalion and two companies of the d Missouri ; the latter t Captains Burgwin and McMillen ; while Captains St. Vrain an Slack, with the mounted men, moved round to the east of ti town, to intercept any attempt at flight. Two hours' cannonadin having proved it impossible to breach the strong walls of ti church with the -pounder and howitzers, the troopi wete ordered forward to Storm. Most gallantly was the service performed, and most manfully was the building defended by its occupants, who poured out a continual and destructive fire. Establishing themselves close under the western wall, the troops now endeavoured to breach it with axes ; and by means of a temporary ladder the roof was fired. Meanwhile Captain Burg-win with a small party, leaving the cover of the wall, entered the coral in front of the church, and essayed to effect an entrance at the great door. This attempt was found fruitless, and in making it, the daring Burgwin received his death-wound. About P. M. the -pounder, brought within sixty yards, enlarged into a practicable breach one of the holes made by the axes. The gun was then run up within ten yards, a shell and three rounds of grape were poured through the breach, and now the storming-party burst in. On the north the charge was equally successful ; the long and hotly contested fight resulted in the utter discomfiture and disordered flight of the foe. It was now night, and the troops were quietly quartered in the houses on the west side of the town, abandoned by the enemy. Early next morning, the old men, the matrons, and the priest, bringing with them the children and the altar images, humbly implored mercy and peace. Their supplication was granted, on the condition that Tomas should be given up, that chief having been an instigator and actor in the cruel murder of Governor Bent and his party. In this battle the enemy's ascertained loss was about one hundred and fifty killed—his wounded unknown. The American loss was seven killed and forty-five wounded. Of these many afterwards died. In the earlier days of the revolt, Captain Hendley, than whom Missouri counted among her bravest none more brave, fell, while endeavouring to suppress the insurrection in the valley of the Moro. He was in command of the grazing detachment on the Pecos, but hearing of the insurrection, on the th of January, promptly ordered the different grazing parties to asemble, and took possession of Las Bagas, where a concentration of the forces of the insurgents had commenced. These were readily dispersed by the captain and his command, which was soon increased to the number of two hundred and twenty-five men, by the arrival of different parties. Leaving the main body of his force to preserve tranquillity at Las Bagas, he set out on the d to the Mom, where the insurgents had embodied two hundred men. Upon arriving before the place, on the th, he found the Mexicans under arms. While preparing for an attack, he perceived a small party of insurgents running from the hills. A detachment which he sent out to cut them off, encountered the main body of the enemy, and soon brought on a general engagement. After a few volleys the enemy gave way, and sought their houses, from the windows and loopholes of which they fired upon the Americans. The latter hotly pursued them in their flight, rushing into the houses with them, shooting, and running through many with the bayonet. A part of the insurgents gained an old fort and commenced a fire on the American troops. Captain Hendley, with a small party, forced his way into one of the apartments, and, while preparing to fire the fort, received a ball, from which he died in a few minutes. Being without artillery, the Americans considered the fort impregnable under present circumstances, and abandoned the place, having killed twenty-five of the enemy, and taken seventeen prisoners. The American loss was Captain Hendley killed, and three wounded. His body was taken to Santa Fe, and buried with military honours. Subsequently his remains were conveyed to Fort Leavenworth, and thence to Richmond, where they were interred on the d of September, . On the st of February, his death, and the fall, too, of other gallant men, was avenged by the complete demolition of the Moro village, by the troops under Captain Morin. By those prompt exertions the insurrection was effectually sup- Chavez at Pueblo ; Montoya was hanged as a traitor, at San Fernando ; and Tomas was, in a quarrel, shot by a private, while a prisoner in the guard-room of the latter town. Sanction of General Kearny's assumed power to transfer the allegiance of the New Mexicans from their own government to the United States, was refused by the latter. Consequently the charge of treason alleged against the revolters was not to be sustained, and the military executions under this supposed right were very promptly stopped. In May, marauding bands of Mexicans and Indians made desultory attacks on supply-trains and grazing-parties. On the th of this month, at the Red River Carlon, after a sharp conflict, Major Edmondson, with a detachment of about two hundred men, severely punished the largest of these bands, killing forty-one of their number, and wounding a still greater proportion. In June, Lieutenant Brown, with two of his men, in an effort to recover horses stolen from his command, was cruelly murdered. Major Edmondson hastily marched from Las Vegas in pursuit of the murderers, shot down a few, and took forty prisoners. In July, rumours of an intended renewal of the insurrection were rife. But the increased vigilance of the troops, and the presence of an additional force from the States, checked the contemplated outbreak. On the th of July, all now seeming more permanently tranquil, Colonel Price was raised to the rank of brigadier-general, and appointed still to command at Santa Fe. Here we take leave of the Army of the West—an army whose sufferings and whose deeds alike entitle it to the admiration and boundless gratitude of its country. CHAPTER XVI. Government determines upon making Vera Cruz the base of a new Line of Operations—Vera Cruz—Description of the City—San Juan d'Ulloa—By whom founded — Description of the Fortress—Its Capture by Acle, Lorencillo, and Bodin—Taylor notified of the intention to reduce his Force—Scott ordered to Mexico—Reaches the Rio Grande—Appoints the Island of Lobos as the place of Rendezvous—Description of Lobos—The Arrival of Volunteers—Reconnoissance by Scott and Conner—Preparations for Disembarking upon the Beach at Vera Cruz—Disembarkation of the Troops—Investment of the City—Gallant co-operation of the Navy—Skirmishes with the Enemy—Investment completed —Scott's Despatch to the War Department—The Batteries opened—Skirmish at Puenta del Medio—Harney's brilliant affair at Medellin—Overtures for the Surrender of Vera Cruz and San Juan d'Ulloa—Commissioners appointed—Ceremony of Capitulation—Scott's Despatch to the War Department—Alvarado —Effects of the Bombardment of Vera Cruz. Wrm the capture of Monterey ended the campaign of . But before this brilliant achievement took place, it became evident to the government, that another and even more effective column of invasion would be required to operate from a point affording a nearer approach to the Mexican capital. General Santa Anna, whose return from exile had been connived at by our government, so far from distracting the Mexican people by internal dissensions, or inclining them to more peaceful views, had succeeded in allaying the feuds of opposing parties, and in rousing and uniting all classes to a more vigorous prosecution of the war. Finding all hope of reasonable accommodation cut off by this untoward state of things, a new and shorter line was determined on, striking into the heart of the enemy's possessions. While the 	 e III We alerfa MIMIC wdd IV Ile Heal uy	WIU diminished forces, the city of Vera Cruz was selected as the base of a new line of operations, for the assault of which preparations were made on a scale commensurate with the formidable character of the undertaking. Vera Cruz, the only commercial city of importance belonging to the republic of Mexico, is situated in latitude deg. min. sec. N. ; longitude deg. min. W. of Washington, and has an average temperature of degrees Fahrenheit. Founded about the year by the Count of Monterey, and upon the exact spot which witnessed the landing of Cortez, forty years before, it became, in , the capital of the department of Vera Cruz. It contains about one thousand and sixty-three houses, built mostly of stone, two stories high, and of a square shape, with flat roofs and parapets. The population, which in the year was computed at ,, has fallen off gradually to about souls, which is believed to be about its present number. The city is surrounded by a stone wall, varas or yards in circumference, which is defended by nine bastions, capable of supporting guns. Vera Cruz is small but regularly laid out, well paved, and well lighted. Its police regulations are admirable. It contains a Cathedral, to which are attached the two chapels of Del Pastora and Del Loreto. It has also five convents and three hospitals. The Cathedral occupies the south side of the principal Plaza. On the east is the Government House, dignified by the title of Palace, and on the west and north are ranges of porticoes. The more modern erections for public offices, near the wharf, are among the finest in the city. Although Vera Cruz itself is situated upon an arid plain, surrounded by billowy sand-hills of various heights, and intervening clusters of thick chaparral, the country at a little distance inland is fertile and productive. Game, fish, fruit, and vegetables are abundant ; and there are few cities in which the necessaries or even the luxuries of life, can be obtained with greater facility. The harbour or roadstead is a very insecure one, and, from the anchorage being among shoals, affords but little protection during the prevalence of ce Northers." But the pride of the republic, as it was formerly the boast of Old Spain, is the famous fortress of San Juan d'Ulloa. This almost impregnable structure was commenced in the year , and the immense sum of forty millions of dollars was expended by the Spaniards upon its erection. It is built upon an island in front of the city, and at a distance from it of one thousand and sixty-two (c varas," or yards. This island had been visited by Don Juan di Orijalva, as early as the year , and from him received the name by which the fortress is now known. The foundations of this immense structure are laid in the sea, and with a solidity that has defied alike the furious storms of that latitude, and the encroachments of the fierce element by which it is surrounded. The length of the exterior polygon towards Vera Cruz, is three hundred yards ; on the north channel two hundred yards, while the fire upon both the northern and southern channels can be doubled by the use of the additional batteries of Santiago and San Miguel. The stone used in the construction of the fortress, is the Madrepora Astrea, a species of soft coral, the walls and exposed points being further defended by a facing of stone of a harder quality. The complement of guns which it is capable of mounting, is said to be three hundred and seventy. When the Castle was taken by the French in , its batteries were found to contain one hundred and seventy-seven guns of various calibre. Notwithstanding the formidable character of its works, Saw Juan d'Ulloa had been captured three times, previous to its investment by the American forces. It was surprised in , by Juan Aguinas Acle, a well known buccaneer, who was, however, expelled shortly afterwards by Don Francisco di Lujan, supported by a fleet of twenty-three vessels. The second capture is a remarkable one in the annals of Vera Cruz. It was made on the night of the th of May, , by the pirate Lorencillo, who, after defeating the garrison, sacked the city at his leisure, retaining possession of both for two weeks ; when, having secured an immense amount of plunder, he retired without molestation. The third capture, that by the French naval forces under Admiral Bodin, has already been alluded to. It was upon this point, already blockaded by our squadron, that the greater proportion of the military force in actual service, or in the progress of enlistment, was directed by our government to be concentrated. By a despatch, dated the d of October, , General Taylor was notified by the Secretary of War to hold himself in readiness to meet a requisition upon him for four thousand of his best officers and men ;—while, by a subsequent letter, he was informed that a still greater number, amounting to one-half of his whole force, would be required. Nine new regiments of volunteers were called for, and the President proposed to ask at the next meeting of Congress for permission to organize ten additional regiments of regulars. This authority he expected to receive early in the session, but the bill was not passed until near its close. On the d of November, General Scott, having been previously put in possession of the views of the Executive, received the following order from. the Secretary of War :— " WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, Nov. , . ,t SIR :—The President, several days since, communicated in Person to you his orders to repair to Mexico. to take command of the forces there assembled, and particularly to organize and set on foot an expedition to operate on the Gulf coast, if, on arriving at the theatre of action, you shall deem it practicable. It is not proposed to control your operations by definite and positive instructions, but you are left to prosecute them as your judgment under a full view of all the circumstances shall dictate. The work is before you, and the means provided for accomplishing it, are committed to you, in the full confidence that you will use them to the best advantage. The objects which it is desirable to obtain have been indicated, and it is hoped that you will have the requisite force to accomplish them. Of this you must be the judge, when preparations are made, and the time for action arrived. tc Very respectfully, your obedient servant, W. L. MARCY, Secretary of War. General WniriELD Scorr." Under these instructions, General Scott left Washington the next day for New York, from which place he sailed on the th, and reached the Rio Grande on the st day of January, . Here he was met by the divisions of Generals Worth, Twiggs, Quitman, and Pillow. These, after a brief delay at the mouth of the river, with the forces here collected, were embarked on board the transports waiting to receive them. Their destination was the island of Lobos. This island, as described by an eye-witness, (g is a lovely little spot, formed entirely of coral, about two miles in circumference, twelve miles from the Mexican shore, sixty from Tampico, and one hundred and thirty from Vera Cruz. cc It was covered, before the Americans•made it their rendezvous, with a variety of trees and shrubs, the highest of the former probably some twenty-five feet, and these so thickly covered with vines that one can hardly get through them. Almost all the trees are of strange growth. Banyan-trees speading over large spaces of ground, their limbs forming props as they pierce into the earth and take root ; while the tops, thickly thatched with evergreen vines, form most beautiful arbours. Lemon, lime, fig, palm,' cane, and an hundred other species of wood, are growing with all the freshness and beauty of the Indies. There is plenty of water to be had :, digging from four to six feet. It is blackish and sweet, and about the quality of ship-water. Fish and sea-fowl we have in profusion. With these we have a sea air that, fourteen hoys out of the twenty-four, makes the place delightfully pleasant." By the th of February, thirty-six hundred volunteers and four hundred regulars had already concentrated here, together with eighteen vessels of the first class. Shortly after, the transports arrived from the Rio Grande ; and the commander-in-chief, having at length increased his forces to about twelve thousand men, embarked them on board one hundred ships and transports, and sailed for Anton Lizardo. On the th of March, in the midst of the violent cc norther," look-outs on board the squadron lying at the latter place, descried the long-expected armament bearing down upon them, and whitening the horizon with a wall of canvass. Spurning the fierce waves in triumph, ship after ship came dashing into the harbour, and, casting anchor, presented at the close of the day a perfect forest of masts. On the th, General Scott, accompanied by Commodore Conner, commanding the naval forces stationed in the Gulf, proceeded on board the steamer Petrita, for the purpose of reconnoitring the city and castle, and choosing a point best calculated to facilitate the landing of the troops The beach west of the island of Sacrificios was selected ; but the anchorage being very contracted, it was decided, in order to avoid the confusion which would necessarily follow the crowding of so many vessels, to transfer most of the troops from the transports to the vessels of war. And now all delays and impediments having been overcome, the eventful day at length arrived which was to witness the disembarkation of the invading force upon Mexican soil, and within sight of the heroic city, and the renowned castle of San Juan d 'Ulloa. It was the th of March. The sun rose bright and beautiful. The fierce gg norther," the terror of those latitudes, had given place to a gentle breeze from the south-east, and a sea as smooth as if it had never known a ripple, and every heart bat high with eager expectation. About an hour before noon, the squadron got under way, the Princeton leading, with the Raritan in tow. About mid-day those on board the steamer New Orleans, just arrived with six hundred and fifty additional men, while casting anchor beheld the steamer Massachusetts pass, and upon her deck the tall and stately forin of the Commander-in-chief. He was saluted with deafening cheers. The remainder of the transports followed in their turn ; and then was exhibited a spectacle which for magnificence has seldom, if ever, been equalled. The ships of war moving under easy sail, were packed closely with warlike men, whose bayonets, flashing in the sunlight, flickered up continually like innumerable tongues of flame. Following the vessels, and attached to them, were the numerous surf-boats destined to convey the troops ashore. Steamers and other vessels brought up the rear, crowded with spectators, anxious to witness the landing. The ships of war of three European nations looked on — their masts, rigging, and every point of vantage crowded with eager faces. Inspiriting strains of martial music were heard from afar, and at intervals rose, subdued by distance, the shouts and joyous outbursts of the soldiers, who, weary of a life of inaction, welcomed with en- glory of the scene was yet to come. In about three hours the frigates and transports dropped anchor opposite the island of Sacrificios. Quietly and in admirable order, each ship took up its appointed station. The steamers Spitfire and Vixen, and five gun-boats, were detailed to cover the landing. The immense surf-boats, sixty-five in number, each capable of holding one hundred men, were hauled to the gangways of the various ships ; and, by four o'clock, freighted with four thousand five hundred men, were seen drawn up abreast of each other, in a single line extending for nearly a mile. This was the first division, under General Worth. The Massachusetts fired the signal for landing, and then, simultaneously, the bristling flotilla, filled to the gunwales with its human freight, was seen under way ; and, amid the hearty cheers of those who were left behind, to the spirit-stirring strains of martial music, and within sight of the gray old walls of Vera Cruz, and the terrible armature of its almost impregnable fortress, the dauntless soldiers neared the shore. As the boats touched ground, the foremost men of each sprang into the water waist deep, and dashed up the sandy beach, followed by their equally impetuous comrades ; the stars and stripes were rapidly flung to the breeze, and the setting sun cast for a few minutes a lingering radiance among its folds. Thus was achieved the landing of the first division. The second, under command of Major-General Patterson, speedily followed. The reserve of regulars under Brigadier General Twiggs succeeded, and by ten o'clock, P. M., the men-of-war and transports were relieved of the remaining troops. The facility, directness, and precision with which this important object was accomplished, reflect great credit upon Commodore Conner and the officers of the squadron. All the necessary arrangements had been made with so much skill and fore- thought, that nearly twelve thousand men were thus disembarked without confusion, disturbance, or a solitary accident of any kind. Never, perhaps, in the annals of warlike operations, was a disembarkation completed in which skill and science were more successfully combined. The able and effective manner in which the naval dispositions were carried out, proved how fully that arm of service participated in the enthusiasm animating the faces of those destined to operate on shore. The toils and hardships performed by the squadron in the performance of thankless and inglorious duties, have never been sufficiently appreciated by the country at large. The more brilliant achievements of the army have had the effect of casting the less imposing, but equally arduous services of the navy into the shade. Time alone can do justice to the incessant caution, diligence, and watchfulness required of both officers and seamen, in an exceedingly unsafe position, and constantly exposed to the terrible effects of the fierce winds called cc northers," so prevalent in the Gulf during eight months of each year. That the navy panted to share in the successes of their companions in arms, and that they could be equally zealous in maintaining the honour of their country's flag, the best evidence was given in the manner in which the marine batteries were worked during the subsequent operations .of the siege, and in the eagerness with which all the officers and men of the squadron availed themselves of this only opportunity for distinction. The landing of the troops, which all expected to have been met by a most bloody and determined resistance, was effected, to the great disappointment of the ardent spirits of our men, without any demonstration tieing made on the part of the enemy, further than the firing of roundshot and shells from the long guns of the fortress. The enemy lost here, as at the passage of the Arroya Colorado, the best opportunity of resistance to the army of the United States. During the night the line of investment was partially taken up, and by the th, the entire army had assumed the positions previously assigned them in general orders, which were minute in particulars, based on information carefully obtained and thoroughly studied by the Commander-in-chief, and pointed out everything with the utmost precision. It must not be supposed, however, that this was achieved without difficulty, or an attempt at opposition ; on the contrary, the labours of both officers and men were unusually severe. The character of the country around Vera Cruz—loose hills of light shifting sand, varying from twenty to two hundred feet in height, interspersed with dense and almost impenetrable forests of chaparral—and the limited means of land transportation, was only to be overcome by the most excessive exertions on the part of the men, upon whom the conveyance of the ordnance, munitions of war, and the necessary provisions for subsistence, was almost entirely devolved. Their labours, sufficiently severe at any time, were rendered still more so by the prevalence of violent ct northers," which blew away whole hills of sand, added to and created others, blinding and stifling the men with the minute and penetrating particles. On the morning of the th the firing of heavy ordnance commenced from the city and castle ; and, except during the fury of the storm, was kept up night and day without any intermission, though with but little effect upon the lines of investment. By eleven o'clock General Worth succeeded in taking up his position on the right of the line. The division of General Patterson followed, Pillow's brigade being in the advance. After passing Worth, Pillow was detached with the st and d Tennessee, and st and d Pennsylvania regiments, to dislodge the enemy, who were in possession of an old building near the head of the Laguna Malibran, while Lieutenant French, with one field-piece of Taylor's battery, was ordered to open fire upon a stone magazine also occupied by the enemy, and situate in the rear of the city. Both these orders were successfully accomplished. The Mexicans evacuated the magazine, and Pillow's detachment, after driving their antagonists from the field, with the loss of one officer and three men on the part of the latter, cut their way through the chaparral, and with the st Tennessee regiment took possession of the magazine. Leaving Colonel Campbell with his brave Tennesseans at this point, Pillow again pressed forward, encountered the enemy near the Medellin road, and drove them rapidly thence to the hills south-east of the city. Here they again attempted to rally, but eventually fell back within shelter of the city guns. Upon these hills Pillow rested his command for the night. In the morning, General Quitman, while in the act of relieving Pillow, was fired upon simultaneously by the enemy's infantry and the batteries of the city. A detachment of riflemen under Captain Davis was instantly thrown forward, supported by Lieutenant Colonel Dickinson and Major Gladden with two companies, each of the South Carolina regiment, and after a brief but spirited engagement the enemy was repulsed. Two skirmishes subsequently ensued, in which separate detachments of the New York regiment distinguished themselves, and with the same successful result. The same day, Brigadier-General Twiggs commenced the march of his division, the position laid down for him being the village of Vergara, and the left of the line. Nothing but the well known energy and perseverance of this veteran 'commander, enabled him to overcome the numerous difficulties which beset him at every step. The ground was rugged and broken—the sandhills high and loose, and utterly impassable for artillery—the chaparral required to be pierced at many points to allow the passage of the troops, and the guns to be hauled and lifted over high ridges, the successful accomplishment of which demanded the utmost exercise of physical force. The men had also .to sustain the burden of carrying their provisions and munitions of war, and were besides annoyed oy incessant attacks from skirmishing parties of the enemy, who, repeatedly driven back at one point, reappeared at another, and kept the Mounted Rifles, under the command of the gallant Major Sumner, d dragoons, continually on the alert. The enemy lost two commissioned officers, and it was during these operations that Brevet Captain Alburtis, an officer highly distinguished in the Florida war, was killed by a cannon-bah from the city. On the th the line of investment was complete, and from this time until the th, when the trenches were opened, the men were kept constantly busy in throwing up breastworks, erecting batteries, planting mortars, landing supplies, and beating off the light troops of the enemy. Commodore Perry, who on the st succeeded to the command of the Home Squadron, rendered efficient aid to General Scott. On the d, simultaneously with the opening of the batteries in the rear of Vera Cruz, he directed the fire of his flotilla of steamers and gun-boats upon the city with good effect. By permission of the General-in-chief, he also established under the direction of Captain Aulick a marine battery, of three Paixhan guns, and three long thirty-two pounders, which bore an important part in the demolition of the city. From the th, until the final surrender, the progress of events is best marked by the following official despatches. " HEAD- QUARTERS OF THE ARMY, Camp Washington, before Vera Cruz, March , . cc SIR :--Yesterday, seven of our -inch mortars being in battery, and the labours for planting the remainder of our heavy metal being in progress, I addressed, at two o'clock, P. M., a summons to the Governor of Vera Cruz, and within the two hours 	Li limited by the bearer of the flag, received the Governor's answer. Copies of the two papers (marked respectively A and B) are herewith enclosed. gc It will be perceived that the Governor, who, it turns out, is the commander of both places, chose, against the plain terms of the summons, to suppose me to have demanded the surrender of the castle and of the city ; when in fact, from the non-arrival of our heavy metal— principally mortars—I was in no condition to threaten the former. c I On the return of the flag with that reply, I at once ordered the seven mortars, in battery, to open upon the city. Ina short time the smaller vessels of Commodore Perry's squiidon—two steamers and five schooners—according to previous arrangement with him, approached the city within about a mile and an eighth, whence, being partially covered from the castle—an essential condition to their safety—they also opened a brisk fire upon the city. This has been continued uninterruptedly by the mortars, and only with a few intermissions, by the vessels, up to nine o'clock this morning, when the Commodore, very properly, called them off from a position too daringly assumed. it Our three remaining mortars are now ( o'clock, A. M.) in battery, and the whole ten in activity. To-morrow, early, if the city should continue obstinate, batteries Nos. and will be ready to add their fire : No. , consisting of four -pounders, and two -inch Paixhan guns, and No. (naval battery), of three -pounders, and three -inch Paixhans— the guns, officers, and sailors, landed from the squadron—our friends of the navy being unremitting in their zealous co-operation, in every mode and form. it So far, we know that our fire upon the city has been highly effective, particularly from the batteries of -inch mortars, planted at about yards from the city. Including the preparation and defence of the batteries, from the beginning—now many days—and notwithstanding the heavy fire of the enemy, from city and castle, we have only had four or five men wounded and one officer and one man killed in or near the trenches. That officer was Captain John R. Vinton, of the United States d artillery, one of the most talented, accomplished, and effective members of the army, and who was highly distinguished in the brilliant operations at Monterey. He fell last evening in the trenches, where he was on duty as field and commanding officer, universally regretted. I have just attended his honoured remains to a soldier's grave—in full view of the enemy and within reach of his guns. cc Thirteen of the long-needed mortars—leaving twenty-seven, besides heavy guns, behind—have arrived, and two of them landed. A heavy norther then set in (at meridian), that stopped that operation, and also the landing of shells. Hence the fire of our mortar batteries has been slackened since two o'clock to-day, and cannot be reinvigorated until we shall again have a smooth sea. In the mean time I shall leave this report open for journalizing events that may occur up to the departure of the steamship-ofwar, the Princeton, with Commodore Conner, who, I learn, expects to leave the anchorage of Sacrificios, for the United States, the th inst. (c March .— The storm having subsided in the night, we commenced this forenoon, as soon as the sea became a little smooth, to land shot, shells, and mortars. cc The naval battery, No. , was opened with great activity, under Captain Aulick, the second in rank in the squadron, about ten A. M. His fire was continued to two o'clock, P. M., a little before he was relieved by Captain Mayo, who landed with a fresh supply of ammunition, Captain Aulick having exhausted the supply he had brought with him. He lost four sailors, killed, and had one officer, Lieutenant Baldwin, slightly hurt. cc The mortar batteries, Nos. , , and , have fired but lan- guidly during the day, for want of shells, which are now going out from the beach. cc The two reports of Colonel Bankhead, chief of artillery, both of this date, copies of which I enclose, give the incidents of those three batteries. ti Battery No. , which will mount four -pounders and two -inch Paixhan guns, has been much delayed in the hands of the indefatigable engineers by the norther, that filled up the work with sand nearly as fast as it could be opened by the half-blinded la. bourers. It will, however, doubtless be in full activity early to-morrow morning. eg March .—The Princeton being about to start for Philadelphia, I have but a moment to continue this report. gc All the batteries, Nos. , , , , and , are in awful activity this morning. The effect is, no doubt, very great, and I think the city cannot hold out beyond to-day. To-morrow morning, many of the new mortars will be in a position to add their fire, when, or after the delay of some twelve hours, if no proposition to surrender should be received, I shall organize parties for carrying the city by assault. So far, the defence has been spirited and ob I enclose a copy of a memorial received last night, signed by the consuls of Great Britain, France, Spain, and Prussia, within Vera Cruz, asking me to grant a truce to enable the neutrals, together with Mexican women and children, to withdraw from the scene of havoc about them. I shall reply, the moment that an opportunity may be taken, to say-. That a truce can only be granted on the application of Governor Morales, with a view to surrender. . That, in sending safeguards to the different consuls, beginning so far back as the th inst., I distinctly admonished them — particularly the French and Spanish consuls —and of course, through the two, the other consuls, of the dangers that have followed. . That, although at that date I had of of investment either way, yet the blockade had been left open to the consuls and other neutrals, to pass out to their respective ships of war, up to the d instant ; and, . I shall enclose to the memorialists a copy of my summons to the Governor, to show that I had fully considered the impending hardships and distresses of the place, including those of women and children, before one gun had been fired in that direction. The intercourse between the neutral ships of war and the city was stopped at the last-mentioned date by Commodore Perry, with my con- • currence, which I placed on the ground that that intercourse could not fail to give to the enemy moral aid and comfort. ci It will be seen from the memorial, that our batteries have already had a terrible effect on the city (also known through other sources), and hence the inference, that a surrender must soon be proposed. In haste, it I have the honour to remain, sir, with respect, your most obedient servant, WINFIELD SCOTT. Hon. Wm. L MARCY, Secretary of War." The naval battery which opened its fire on the th, under the command of Captain Aulick, was erected within yards of the walls of the city, and such was the secrecy and celerity with which the work was performed by the night labours of two thousand men, that its proximity was not discovered by the besieged until the intervening chaparral was suddenly cut away from before it by some daring volunteers headed by Midshipman Allan McLane, a descendant of the brave Revolutionary officer of the same name, and, to the great astonishment of the enemy, it stood boldly developed with its guns mounted, and the men at theirstations. Then commenced its destructive fire, which was vainly attempted to be silenced by turning on it, as upon a terrible focus, the fire of all the batteries in town. The marine battery opened the succeeding morning, and it was here that, within a few hours, fell Midshipman Shubrick, while watching the effects of his shot.	. gc The effect of this battery," writes an eye-witness, cc was awful. The walls were breached, a number of guns dismounted, and the red battery completely silenced. "Equally brave and determined were the Mexicans. Three times the flag-staff was shot away, and three times a Mexican leaped to the battlements and held it aloft amid the cheers of the assailants. In the afternoon a flag of truce arrived, requesting six hours to bury their dead. It was accorded, and the firing ceased." While the siege was thus vigorously pressed, two affairs occured with the enemy without the walls, which are well worthy of record. The first took place on the d, when tidings having been received, that a number of Mexicans were in the vicinity of the Puebla road, Colonel Persifor F. Smith detached from his command Lieutenant Roberts, with company C, of the Mounted Rifles, with orders to reconnoitre and return. Near the Puente del Medio, six men were discovered, who displayed a white flag and summoned them to surrender. Then it was that he discovered several hundred men on the heights, commanding the bridge, the former being entrenched, and the latter barricaded with abbatis. Finding his force too small to act with effect, he sent back for reinforcements. Two hundred men, commanded by Colonel Smith in person, soon arrived. Lieutenant Roberts was now directed to display in the chaparral to the right; and, crossing below, ttfrn the left of the enemy; while Captain Pope, with two companies, crossed above, and turned their right, the remainder advancing by the road and bridge. These orders were gallantly carried out. Roberts, from his previous knowledge of the ground, was the first to reach the enemy. He succeeded in facing their position, when, finding themselves charged on all sides, they broke in confusion, and were pursued until sunset. In this skirmish Lieutenants Roberts, Maury, and Hatch, were particularly distinguished.* The second affair was of a far more important character, and may be justly regarded as one of the most brilliant actions of the war. Learning on the th that a considerable force of the enemy were in the neighbourhood of the Medellin river, Colonel Harney advanced to meet him, taking with him Thornton's dragoons under Major Sumner, and some fifty dismounted men, commanded by Captain Ker. On reaching the stone bridge of the Morena, he found it fortified, and all further passage disputed by two thousand men and two pieces of artillery. Small parties of lancers were also occasionally seen. On approaching the bridge, a heavy fire was poured upon our skirmishers, by which one man was killed and two wounded. Harney then fell back, and waited for two pieces of artillery, with which he determined to force the bridge. Meanwhile he was joined by Captain Hardee with forty men, a company of the st Tennessee regiment under Captain Cheatham, and part of four companies of the d Tennessee regiment under Colonel .Haskell. As soon as the two pieces of artillery under Lieutenant Judd arrived, preparations were made for the attack. Captain Ker, with the dismounted dragoons, was stationed on the left of the road leading to the bridge, the volunteers on the right, while Captain Hardee and Lieutenant Hill supported the artillery, and held themselves in readiness to charge. Major 'Smith's Report. Sumner with the mounted men were kept in reserve. Lieutenant Judd was directed to approach with caution, as the road was circuitous, and the bridge not visible until within fifty yards of the fortification. No sooner was he discovered than the whole fire of the Mexicans was concentrated upon him. To divert this, the detachments to the right and left of the road were ordered to fire, while Lieutenant Judd, nothing daunted, opened upon the fortification ; and, after six or eight well directed rounds, the heads of the enemy were no longer to be seen above the parapet.* At this moment Harney ordered a charge, and forward rushed the volunteers under Haskell and Cheatham ; and, following with a shout, came the bold dragoons. Haskell was the first man to clear the parapet. The enemy fell back, and re-formed beyond the bridge. Sumner's command now came galloping up, and with a wild hurrah they leaped the fortification, and charged across the bridge. The Mexican infantry broke and fled, some towards Medellin, some into the chaparral. The lancers stood, and a hand-to-hand conflict ensued. Sumner and Lieutenant Sibley, in the thickest of the melee, several times measured strength with the enemy, killing or dismounting their antagonists. Harney was seen everywhere; his tall form and gallant bearing, his coolness, and his audacity, won the admiration of his command, and struck terror into the enemy. The d dragoons, the bravest and best disciplined corps in the whole army, parried the quivering lance-points with the easy grace and expert swordsmanship for which they are renowned. The lancers faltered, gave way, fled, and were routed so utterly, that Lieutenants Lowry and Oaks, with three men, pursued a party of thirty, and sabred or dismounted all but five. The pursuit was urged to the village of Medellin, where another party of lancers were found ;—these, too, soon partook of the general panic, and were pursued by Lieutenant Neill, outstripping . Harney's Report. his three companions ; but his daring had near cost'him his life. The flying foe, ashamed of being chased by one man, turned suddenly, and by dint of numbers succeeded in lancing him in the breast and arm. The pursuit was urged for two miles beyond this, and then the victors rode back to the village. After halting to refresh both men and horses, Harney returned with his command to camp, which they reached on the morning of the th, after a warlike episode which, in its chivalric character, has nothing to compare with it but the series of dashing heroic exploits we have yet to record, and of which the action at Medellin was a fitting forerunner. ut we have now to notice events of greater magnitude. . The siege of Vera Cruz was approaching its close. On the same day which witnessed the return of Harney, General Scott received in answer to his reply to the consuls, overtures of surrender by General Landero, upon whom, owing to the sickness of General Morales, the chief command of both city and castle had been devolved. The Mexican general invited the appointment of three commissioners on each side, to meet at some intermediate point, and treat upon the terms of accommodation. Generals Worth and Pillow, and Colonel Totten, were accordingly appointed on the part of the Americans; and Colonels Villanueva and Herrera, and Lieutenant-Colonel Robles, on the part of the Mexicans. After a considerable discussion, and a rejection of several of the articles first proposed, articles of capitulation were agreed upon and assented to by the respective Commanders-in chief. On the th the ratification took place. The following are the articles of capitulation :- "Generals W. J. Worth and G. J. Pillow, and Colonel J. G. Totten, Chief Engineer, on the part of Major-General Scott, General-in-chief of the armies of the United States ; and Col. Jose Gutierrez de Villanueva, Lieutenant Colonel of the Engineers, Man- SURRENDER OF VERA CRUZ. uel Robles, and Colonel Pedro de Herrera, commissioners appointed by General-of-brigade Don Jose Juan Landero, commanding in chief Vera Cruz, the castle of San Juan d'Ulloa, and their dependencies—for the surrender to the arms of the United States of the said forts, with their armaments, munitions of war, garrisons, and arms. ic . The whole garrison, or garrisons, to be surrendered to the arms of the United States, as prisoners of war, the th inst., at ten o'clock, A. M. ; the garrisons to be permitted to march out with all the honours of war, and to lay down their arms to such officers as may be appointed by the General-in-chief of the United States, and at a point to be agreed on by the commissioners. ‘ . Mexican officers shall preserve their arms and private effects, including horse and horse furniture, and to be allowed, regular and irregular officers and also to rank and file, five days to retire to their respective homes, on parole, as hereinafter prescribed. cl . Coincident with the surrender, as stipulated in article one, the Mexican flags of the various forts and stations shall be struck, saluted by their own batteries ; and, immediately thereafter, forts Santiago and Conception and the castle of San Juan d'Ulloa, occupied by the forces of the United States. «. The rank and file of the regular portion of the prisoners to be disposed of, after surrender and parole, as their general-inchief may desire, and the irregular to be permitted to return to their homes. The officers, in respect to all arms and descriptions of force, giving the usual parole, that the said rank and file, as well as themselves, shall not serve again until duly exchanged. cc . All the materiel of war, and all public property of every description found in the city, the castle of San Juan d'Ulloa, and their dependencies, to belong to the United States ; but the armament of the same (not injured or destroyed in the further prosecution of the actual war) may be considered as liable to be restored to Mexico by a definitive treaty of peace. cc . The sick and wounded Mexicans to be allowed to remain in the city, with such medical officers of the army as may be necessary to their care and treatment. cc . Absolute protection is solemnly guarantied to persons in the city, and property, and it is clearly understood that no private building or property is to be taken or used by the forces of the United States, without previous arrangement with the owners, and for a fair equivalent. cc . Absolute freedom of religious worship and ceremonies is solemnly guarantied.'	e. On the th, the ceremony of surrender occurred. The spot chosen for this purpose, was a plain in the rear of the city walls, and extending back towards Malibran. The American army was drawn up in two lines facing inwards, and extending nearly a mile. General Worth, who had been appointed to superintend the ceremony of capitulation, appeared upon the ground in full uniform. About ten o'clock, the Mexican troops marched out to the sound of music, and in their customary military costume and equipments ; women and children bearing burdens followed. Halted between our lines, the conquered army stacked their arms, laid down their colours and equipments, and marched into the interior as our troops entered the city. Simultaneously with the act of surrender, the American flag floated over the plaza, and was saluted by the guns of the city and squadron. On this memorable day, Scott dated from the Palace of Vera Cruz the following despatch to the Secretary of War : " HEAD-QUARTERS OF THS ARMY, Vera Cruz, March , .S " Six : The flag of the United States of America floats triumphantly over the walls of this city and the castle of San Juan d'Ulloa. tc Our troops have garrisoned both since ten o'clock : it is nom noon. Brigadier-General Worth is in command of the twc places. gc Articles of capitulation were signed and exchanged at a late hour night before last. I enclose a copy of the document. have heretofore reported the principal incidents of the siege up to the th instant. Nothing of striking interest occurred till early in the morning of the next day, when I received overtures from General Landero, on whom General Morales bad devolve( the principal command. A terrible storm of wind and sand math it difficult to communicate with the city, and impossible to refer to Commodore Perry. I was obliged to entertain the proposition alone, or to continue the fire upon a place that had shown a disposition to surrender ; for the loss of a day, or perhaps several, could not be permitted. The accompanying papers will shop the proceedings and results. tc Yesterday, after the norther had abated, and the commis. sioners appointed by me early the morning before had again mei those appointed by General Landero, Commodore Perry sent ashore his second in command, Captain Aulick, as a commissioner on the part of the navy. Although not included in my specific arrangement made with the Mexican commander, I did not hesitate, with proper courtesy, to desire that Captain Aulick might be duly introduced and allowed to participate in the discussion and acts of the commissioners who had been reciprocally accredited. Hence the preamble to his signature. The original American commissioners were Brevet Brigadier-General Worth, Brigadier-General Pillow, and Colonel Totten. Four more able or judicious officers could not have been desired. ( I have to add but little more. The remaining details of the siege—the able co-operation of the United States squadron, successively under the command of Commodores Conner and Perry — the admirable conduct of the whole army, regulars and volun- teers—I should be happy to dwell upon as they deserve ; but the steamer Princeton, with Commodore Conner on board, is under way, and I have commenced organizing an advance into the interior. This may be delayed a few days, waiting the arrival of additional means of transportation. In the mean time, a joint operation, by land and water, will be made upon Alvarado. No lateral expedition, however, shall interfere with the grand movement towards the capital. cc In consideration of the great services of Colonel Totten, in the siege that has just terminated most successfully, and the importance of his presence at Washington, as the head of the engineer bureau, I intrust this despatch to his personal care, and beg to commend him to the very favourable consideration of the department. ( I have the honour to remain, sir, with high respect, your most obedient servant, WINFIELD SCOTT. Hon. Wm. L. MARCY, Secretary of War." The expedition upon Alvarado determined upon between Scott and Perry, was entirely superseded by that vexatious little town having surrendered in the meanwhile to Lieutenant Hunter, who, in the steamer Scourge, had boldly undertaken on his own responsibility the capture of a place which had twice baffled the efforts of our navy, owing to the difficulty of crossing the bar, and the shallowness of the river upon which it is situated. This gallant act of disobedience entailed upon Lieutenant Hunter the censure of his superior officers, while it raised him in the estimation of the American people. The fruits of the capture of Vera Cruz, were five thousand prisoners, as many stand of arms, four hundred pieces of ordnance, and a large quantity of ordnance stores. The prisoners were all set at liberty upon their gg parole" not to serve again during the war, with the exception of a few who had especially distinguished themselves. These General Scott, with the chivalric sympathy of a kindred mind, released, not only without conditions of any kind, but with high encomiums upon their valour. When the American troops entered Vera Cruz, they became for the first time eye-witnesses of the terrible effects of their shot and shells. There was scarcely a building in the whole city which had escaped the unerring precision of our artillery. Many houses were totally destroyed, some by fire, some by the bursting of the destructive missiles that had fallen upon them. Roofs were crushed in, walls rent to their foundations, and the massive stones, hurled forcibly from their places, lay in confused heaps, mingled with broken shells, and the dead carcasses of horses and mules. An intolerable stench pervaded the place, which required the incessant efforts of General Worth and his successor Colonel Wilson to even partially subdue. CHAPTER XVII. Scott receives information of the Battle of Buena Vista—The course of Santa Anna —Forced Levy attempted by Gomez Farias—Civil War in the Capital—March of Santa Anna upon the Capital from San Luis Potosi—He is met by a Deputation from the City—Enters Mexico in triumph—Is installed President of the Republic—Reconciles conflicting Parties—Collects a new Army—Fortifies the Road to the Capital—Formation of Guerilla Banda—Address of Santa Anna to the Mexican People. ON the th of March, two days subsequent to the complete investment of Vera Cruz, Scott received information of the wonderful victory of Buena Vista, and immediately issued a general order apprising his troops of the same. In this order, after congratulating the army upon this glorious achievement, he hazards the opinion, that Santa Anna having already fallen back upon San Luis Potosi, would probably not stop short of the capital. In this opinion he was correct; but even his sagacity could scarcely have imagined the fatal tenacity with which, notwithstanding his late disastrous expedition, the war party in Mexico still clung to the fortunes of its favourite chief. The false bulletin issued by Santa Anna immediately after that great battle, could scarcely have deceived his most credulous adherents. All must have been aware that, while claiming a victory, he retreated in such confusion that his wounded were left to the tender mercy of the victor, while his troops were so utterly discomfited and disorganized, that thousands deserted by the way. Meanwhile, as if under the influence of that madness which the ancients imputed to those forsaken of the Gods, while Taylor held undisputed possession of the country from Matamoros to Saltillo, and Scott was surrounding Vera Cruz with a belt of fire, civil war broke out in the capital. Gomez Farias, the acting President, having with the authority of Congress attempted, by a proposed sale of church property, to levy the sum of five millions of dollars for the purpose of carrying on the war, found himself thwarted by the resistance of the priesthood, and their adherents among the masses, supported by the gc guarda nacional," or enrolled militia. These latter raised the standard of revolt, and for three weeks the city of Mexico was the theatre of one of those disgraceful scenes which have so often shamed that turbulent republic. Houses were fortified—convents and public offices seized as barracks and places of defence—the stones of the streets were torn up, and barricades erected ; and then both parties, as if unwilling to test their strength in bold and open encounter, retired behind their defences, and kept up for many days a desultory firing upon each other, with unfortunately less loss to themselves than to the unoffending citizens, whom duty or necessity compelled to be abroad. At this juncture, all eyes were again turned upon Santa Anna, as to the only man who could reunite the shattered fragments of the nation, and perhaps retrieve, by the prestige of a single victory, some portion of that glory which seemed to have departed for ever. How far that able but unscrupulous chief might himself have assisted in bringing about this state of things, we have no means of !mowing. Well versed in all the chicanery which belongs to political intrigue, the use of base means, where his own purposes were to be served, was not uncommon to Santa Anna ; and to act as mediator between parties in a storm of his own raising, was a species of diplomacy for which he is known to be well qualified. We may therefore regard it as certain that he was at least kept well advised of the progress of things at the capital, and was prepared, at any moment, to act as circumstances might dictate. That moment at length arrived. Finding that both parties now looked to him for the adjustment of their mutual differences, he took leave of his troops, and quitting San Luis Potosi on the th of March, proceeded to the city of Mexico. His progress was hailed by the people with enthusiasm. Addresses of confidence from various states met him by the way. Deputations from Congress were sent out to conciliate him. His march was as the march of a conqueror, binding and forgiving, dictating and dispensing. He entered the capital on the th, amid the acclamations of the multitude; and, on the d, was formally installed President of the Republic, at Guadalupe Hidalgo. In the general joy elicited by his presence, party animosities were hushed, at least for a time, and all seemed disposed to unite once more in a vigorous attempt to revive the drooping fortunes of the republic. Money was subscribed, arms and munitions of war collected, the city and its immediate environs placed in a state of the most formidable defence, and all the principal points of the route between Vera Cruz and the capital—points in themselves offering great natural advantages—were so strongly entrenched and fortified as to become almost impregnable. In addition to this, the citizens enrolled themselves for home service, and a new army was rapidly organized under approved leaders, while a partisan warfare of guerilla bands was authorized, in which no quarter was to be given to those who fell into their hands, and the plunder of our trains was to be divided among the victors. All things being thus satisfactorily arranged, General Santa Anna assumed command of the army, and previous to leaving the capital issued the following address to the Mexican people : cc Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, President ad interim of the Mexican Republic, to his compatriots. " MEXICANS : Vera Cruz is already in the power of the enemy. It has succumbed,—not under the influence of American valour, nor can it ever be said that it has fallen under the impulses of their own good fortune. To our shame be it said, we ourselves have produced this deplorable misfortune by our own interminable discords. cc The truth is due to you from the government; you are the arbiters of the fate of our country. If our country is to be defended, it will be you who will stop the triumphant march of the enemy who occupies Vera Cruz. If the enemy advance one step more, the national independence will be buried in the abyss of the past. cg I am resolved to go out, and encounter the enemy. What is life worth ennobled by the national gratitude, if the country suffers under a censure the stain of which will rebound upon the forehead of every Mexican! lc My duty is to sacrifice myself, and I well know how to fulfil it! Perhaps the American hosts may proudly tread the Imperial Capital of Azteca. I will never witness such an opprobrium, for I am determined first to die fighting. cc The momentous crisis is at length arrived to the Mexican Republic. It is as glorious to die fighting, as it is infamous to declare oneself conquered without a struggle, and by an enemy whose rapacity is as far removed from valour, as from generosity. cg Mexicans ! you have a religion—protect it! you have honour —then free yourselves from infamy! You love your wives, your children—then liberate them from American brutality. But it must be action—not vain entreaty nor barren desires—with which the enemy must be opposed. (‘ The national cause is infinitely just, although God appears to have abandoned us ; but His ire will be appeased, when we present as an expiation of our errors the sentiments of a true patriotism, and of a sincere union. te Thus the Almighty will bless our efforts, and we will be invincible ! for, against the decision of eight millions of Mexicans, of what avail are the efforts of eight or ten millions of Americans, when opposed by the fiat of Divine Justice ? ( Perhaps I speak to you for the last time ! I pray you to listen to me ! Do not vacillate between death and slavery, and if the enemy conquer you, at least they will respect the heroism of your resistance. It is now time that the common defence should alone occupy your thoughts ! The hour of sacrifice has sounded its approach ! Awaken ! A tomb opens itself at your feet ! Conquer a laurel to repose on it. (‘ The nation has not yet lost its vitality ! I swear to you, I will answer for the triumph of Mexico, if unanimous and sincere efforts on your part second my desires. Happy will have been—a thousand times happy—the unfortunate event at Vera Cruz, if the destruction of that city may have served to infuse into the Mexican breast the dignity and generous ardour of a true patriotism ! (‘ Thus will the country have been indubitably saved ; but if the country succumb, she will bequeath her opprobrium and her censure to those egotists who were not ready to defend her—to those who traitorously pursued their private turmoils to trample upon the national banner ! (‘ Mexicans ! Your fate is the fate of the nation ! Not the Americans, but you will decide her destiny ! Vera Cruz calls for vengeance !—follow me, and wash out the stain of her dishonour. ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA. Maim, March , ." CHAPTER XVIII. Scott commences his March for the Capital—Twiggs thrown forward in advance —Reaches Plan del Rio—Is joined by the General-in-chief—Description of Cerro Gordo—Scott determines upon turning the Position—A new Road cutTwiggs ordered to take up his Position—Is met by the Enemy—Gallantry of th Infantry—Dashing Charge of Harney's Brigade—They capture a Hill in the rear of Cerro Gordo—Mount a Battery in the Night—Wonderful Exertions of the Men —Morning of the th of April—Scott's celebrated Order—Position of the Mealcane—Battle of Cerro Gordo—Storming of the Heights—Operations of Shields's Brigade—Shields dangerously wounded—Defeat of the Enemy—Fruits of Victory --Scott's Despatch to the War Department—Worth enters Puebla. IN the face of the formidable obstacles arrayed against him, Scott commenced his march for the interior. On the th of April, Twiggs left Vera Cruz, taking up the line of march by the Jalapa road, and arrived at Plan del Rio on the th. The next day he was reinforced by the brigades of Generals Pillow and Shields, and subsequently joined by a portion of the volunteers, under Major-General Patterson. Meanwhile, having received information that the enemy, to the number of sixteen thousand men, under the immediate command of Santa Anna, were in the neighbourhood of Cerro Gordo, he ordered a reconnoissance. The report of the officers showed that a succession of heights, each commanding the other, had been entrenched and fortified, and the road cut up and barricaded. In the face of these formidable obstacles, Twiggs determined to advance : and preparations were made to commence the attack on the morning of the th, but the morning of the th was afterwards adopted at the solicitations of Generals Pillow and Shields, whose commands, though desirous of engaging the enemy, were yet too weary from their march, to do it with spirit and effect. - At this juncture, Major-General Patterson, who had been on the sick list, reported himself for duty, and assuming the command, suspended all further offensive operations until the arrival of the General-in-chief.' The division of Worth had come up in the meanwhile, and shortly afterwards Scott himself reached Plan del Rio, when a second and more extended reconnoissance being made, it was discovered that a front attack, even if successful, would occasion the sacrifice of an immense number of lives, and might possibly result in the almost total annihilation of our army. The position occupied by. the Mexicans was indeed almost impregnable. •	The road, as it passes the Plan del Rio, which is a wide, rocky bed of a once large stream, is commanded by a series of high cliffs, rising one above the other, and extending several miles, and all well fortified. The road then debouches to the right, and curving round the ridge passes over a high cliff, which is completely enfiladed by forts and batteries. •	This ridge is the commencement of the I Tierra Templada,' the upper or mountainous country. The high and rocky ravine of the river protected the right flank of the position, and a series of abrupt and almost impassable mountains and ridges crowned their left. •	Between these two points, running a distance of two or three miles, a succession of strongly fortified forts bristled at every turn, and seemed to defy all bravery and skill." t *Twiggs's Report, April , . t Correspondent of the New Orleans Delta. oit, •Nt • .• -". •	""-*- ti Apr or the ^N LINES OF DEFENCE AT CERRO GORDO and the f Attack tkv	Artily uudrr MAJOR. GEN!' SCOTT (h) tiff IP' rend I'"	.pril Srale MaeJ ^ cg On the other side, the lofty and difficult height of Cerro Gordo commanded the approaches in all directions. i'• Under these circumstances, Scott determined to turn the position of the enemy by cutting a road which, diverging from the main road, and descending abruptly a deep ravine, should skirt the base of the mountains, over rough ground and chaparral, cc along difficult slopes and over chasms, out of the enemy's view, but reached by his guns when discovered,"f until it should debouch on the Jalapa road, and in the rear of the main body of the Mexican army. This road, after incredible labour, was only partially completed. For three days, the working parties succeeded in pushing forward unknown to the enemy ; but on the th, while approaching the Mexican lines, they were discovered and fired upon. Their labours, however, had been crowned with success, as the Jalapa road, though not entirely reached, was known to be within easy distance. The division of Twiggs was accordingly ordered to advance by the new route, and, supported by Shields's brigade of volunteers, turn the enemy's left, and take up the position previously designated. In doing this it was necessary to occupy the heights in the vicinity of Cerro Gordo. Lieutenant Gardner was accordingly detached with a company of the th infantry, to a height on the left, for the purpose of reconnoitring the enemy. Upon observing this movement, a strong party of Mexican skirmishers were advanced towards him, supported by a reserve of some two thousand men. Under this severe fire he gallantly maintained his position, until Harney advanced to his support with the Rifles under Major Sumner, and the Artillery under Colonel Childs. Moving rapidly up in line, these regiments reached the summit of the hill, drew the fire of the enemy, and charged. For a while the ground was obstinately disputed, but nothing could withstand the impetuosity of our troops. Animated by the voice and the example of Harney, and led by Sumner and Childs, they forced the Mexicans down the steep, and up and over the neighbouring heights. On the height in front of Cerro Gordo, and under cover of its guns, the enemy again made a desperate stand. Here they imagined themselves secure ; but, through a fierce storm of grape and canister, and amid a heavy fire of musketry, the Artillery and Rifles dashed forward, stormed the hill and carried it with severe loss. Three times the Mexicans rallied, and attempted to retake the height, and each time they were successfully beaten back, until at length they gave way, thoroughly disorganized, and were pursued by Colonel Childs, with a portion of the st artillery, till they sought shelter within the Tower of Cerro Gordo. Such was the reckless enthusiasm with which this chase up the steep of Cerro Gordo had been conducted, that upon halting his command within one hundred and fifty yards of the Tower, Colonel Childs found that he had urged the daring pursuit with only sixty followers. At this juncture, Major Sumner, while hastening to the support of the brave little band, fell severely wounded. Captain Magruder was more fortunate ; he gallantly dashed through a shower of bullets, and with nine of his men succeeded in reaching Colonel Childs, when, the recall being sounded, they withdrew from their perilous position, and retiring slowly, rejoined the remainder of their command, with only men enough to carry back the wounded.* But there was yet a work to be accomplished, which was destined to tax the physical energies of the men to the point of exhaustion. Upon the height thus gallantly captured, a height commanding all others with the single exception of Cerro Gordo, * Childs's Report, April , . a battery consisting of one -pounder and two -pound howitzers was ordered to be planted. For this arduous service a thousand men were detailed, and although the work was commenced at dusk, it occupied the greater portion of the night. The guns were of immense weight, and had to be lifted up the rugged and almost precipitous sides of the mountain by dint of main force, the men being divided into two parties of five hundred men each, and relieving each other by turns. At length, however, the work was successfully accomplished ; and pickets being placed, the weary soldiers threw themselves down upon the rocky crest of the captured hill, and sought a brief, but imperfect repose. Thus far, then, the admirable arrangements of the General-inchief had been successfully carried out, and the division of Twiggs being reported in position, Scott now issued the following confident and prophetic order: ct GENERAL ORDERS, NO. . " HEAD-QUARTERS OF THE ARMY. Plan del Rio, April , . ct The enemy's whole line of entrenchments and batteries will be attacked in front, and at the same time turned, early in the day, to-morrow—probably before ten o'clock, A. M. (c The second (Twiggs's) division of regulars is already advanced within easy turning distance towards the enemy's left. That division has instructions to move forward before daylight to-morrow, and take up a position across the national road in the enemy's rear, so as to cut off a retreat towards Xalapa. It may be reinforced to-day, if unexpectedly attacked in force, by regiments —one or two taken from Shields's brigade of volunteers. If not, the two volunteer regiments will march for that purpose at daylight to-morrow morning, under Brigadier-General Shields, who will report to Brigadier-General Twiggs, on getting up with him, ‘ The remaining regiment of that volunteer brigade will receive instructions in the course of this day. ‘ The first division of regulars (Worth's) will follow the movement against the enemy's left at sunrise to-morrow morning. lc As already arranged, Brigadier-General Pillow's brigade will march at six o'clock to-morrow morning along the route he has carefully reconnoitred, and stand ready as soon as he hears the report of arms upon our right, or sooner if circumstances should , favour him, to pierce the enemy's line of batteries at such point—the nearer the river the better—as he may select. Once in the rear of that line, he will turn to the right or left, or both, and attack the batteries in reverse ; or, if abandoned, he will pursue the enemy with vigour until further orders. cc Wall's field battery and the cavalry will be held in reserve on the national road, a little out of view and range of the enemy's batteries. They will take up that position at nine o'clock in the morning. cc The enemy's batteries being carried or abandoned, all our divisions and corps will pursue with vigour. cc This pursuit may be continued many miles, until stopped by darkness, or fortified positions towards Xalapa. Consequently, the body of the army will not return to this encampment, but be followed to-morrow afternoon, or early the next morning, by the baggage-trains of the several corps. For this purpose, the feebler officers and men of each corps will be left to guard its camp and effects, and to load up the latter in the wagons of the corps. A commander of the present encampment will be designated in the course of this day. cc As soon as it shall be known that the enemy's works have been carried, or that the general pursuit has been commenced, one wagon for each regiment and battery, and one for the cavalry, will follow the movement, to receive, under the direction of the BRIG. GEN. DAVID E. TVIGGS *- ''-----_____-----------_-__-_-__-_L----^ __.- ---,---. ,,,__-,._______.______________	,.._..,,.._--- _...^.._,...______ -.-.„, %---	_:- _,------____-----=-_--=----- -,-.,-	: ----------- 't -------------_-_-------- 	-.- ----	;=------Z:	' 	( ______	_	,. g -*,z-- = medical officers, the wounded and disabled, who will be brought back to this place for treatment in general hospital. ig The Surgeon-General will organize this important service and designate that hospital, as well as the medical officers to be left at it. gc Every man who marches out to attack or pursue the enemy, will take the usual allowance of ammunition, and subsistence for at least two days. By command of Major-General Scott, H. L. SCOTT, A. A. ./. General." The morning of the th rose bright and beautiful. The sun rode up the clear, deep, cloudless blue, ascending through an atmosphere of such transparent purity, as rendered remote objects sharply distinct, and confounded to unaccustomed eyes the idea of distance. A gentle, cooling breeze swept over the hill-tops, and fanned the parched lips of the fevered watchers of both armies, whose eyes were now bent eagerly upon each other, waiting the signal which should impel them from the opposing heights, to meet in close and deadly conflict. The division of Twiggs, whose gallantry on the preceding day had elicited that old veteran's unqualified admiration, was now to go forth again into the hottest of the battle. To the brave regulars of the First Brigade was committed the perilous duty of storming the tower of Cerro Gordo, the success or failure of which enterprise would stamp the orders of the General-in-chief with the spirit of prophecy, or cause them to appear in the annals of history as the vainglorious production of an over-confident man. During this attack upon the key position, the Second Brigade under Riley, and the volunteers under Shields, were to press forward in the direction of the enemy's left, over rough and rugged ways, and through the thorny chaparral which intervened between the newly cut road, and the plain in the rear of the mountain.—The object of this movement was to seize the Jalapa road, and prevent the escape of the fugitives. The division of Worth was ordered to support the storming party, while that of Pillow operated upon the strong river batteries upon the right. Upon the columns of Twiggs and Pillow, therefore, the fiercest brunt of the battle would necessarily fall ; but, upon the results achieved by the former mainly depended the fortune of the day. Cerro Gordo was the key position, overtopping and commanding all others, and, that once taken, the river batteries to be assaulted by Pillow, though almost impracticable when attacked in front, were comparatively valueless as means of defence, whenever the position should be effectually turned, and Cerro Gordo in possession of its conquerors. But the effect of the capture of Cerro Gordo did not end here. Not only would the river batteries be rendered ineffective, but also the ascending series of forts and breastworks, all of which were commanded by the tower. The movement of Pillow was more for the purpose of diverting the attention of the enemy from the storm of Cerro Gordo, than from any great result which was likely to ensue otherwise ; and, if this succeeded, the object of the General-in-chief would be gained, even though Pillow should be beaten back with severe loss, as happened to be subsequently the case. Through the desertion of a German soldier from our ranks, on the evening of the th, General Santa Anna obtained early information of the plan of attack as arranged for the morrow, and strengthened his left accordingly. In order to protect his front and right, General La Vega, previously known as a most gallant and efficient officer, supposing Cerro Gordo secure from assault, exchanged command of the latter with General Vasquez, and sought, by his presence in the river batteries, to animate the defenders to a successful resistance. Throughout the night of the th, there were eight thousand Mexicans lying upon and around the different heights, protected by breastworks and fortifications, and further secured from direct assault, by deep ravines, and almost precipitous rocks, up whose steep sides they imagined a man would scarcely dare to climb. in addition to the force thus formidably posted, there was a reserve of six thousand men encamped upon the plain in the rear of Cerro Gordo, and close to the Jalapa road. These troops, under the immediate command of General Santa Anna, were posted so as to be within supporting distance of any point upon or among the heights, that might be most exposed to danger from a vigorous assault. The American force did not exceed eight thousand men. At break of day, the second division was ordered to prepare for battle, and the co.nmand was obeyed with a quiet fearlessness that augured well for the success of their heroic efforts. The battery planted with so much difficulty upon the crest of the captured bill now opened its fire upon Cerro Gordo, which was returned by a plunging fire of grape and canister. Meanwhile, Harney was organizing his storming party. This consisted of the th infantry under Lieutenant-Colonel Plympton, the Rifles under Major Loring, four companies of the st artillery under Colonel Childs, and six companies of the d infantry under Captain Alexander. All of these, composing the forlorn hope, were regulars ; picked men, danng and resolute. Many of them were veterans who had passed not unscathed through the desperate battles of Palo Alto and the Palm Ravine, and the still more deadly storm of Monterey. Now .they were about to wrestle with a danger, perhaps more imminent than any they had hitherto encountered. They were to advance in the face of an enemy confident in the strength of his defences—in the face of a plunging fire from the Tower of Cerro Gordo—in defiance of the enemy's reserve thrown forward as a succouring force—over barricades bristling with musketry, up steep rocks, several hundred feet in height, and over and into the Tower of Cerro Gordo, itself filled with armed men outnumbering their assailants, and protected by a well directed fire from guns served by the ablest artillerists of the nation, yet not a man faltered. Forming the th Infantry on the right, the d on the left, and the Artillery in the rear, Harney detached the Rifles to check a large force of the enemy hastening to the support of Cerro Gordo, and, without waiting for the fire of his skirmishers, ordered the charge to sound. And now, down rushed those daring men through a storm of grape and canister, and musketry. They descended the hill—they crossed the ravine ; and, with a shout, commenced clambering the terrible height. Looking back from its base, they recognise on the crest of the hill they have so lately quitted, the tall form of the General-in-chief. He has come to witness the exploit which is to determine the fate of the day, and, as he beholds the men clinging to, and surmounting the rocks, in every direction—each eager to be first, regardless of his exposure to the fierce fire continually poured upon them; as he sees a part of them form a little distance from the base of the hill ; and, led by the intrepid Harney, carry the interposing breastwork at the point of the bayonet, in defiance of its resolute defenders ; and as he hears, in the ravine below, the brave Rifles. already baptized in blood, sustaining, with a courage never surpassed, a galling fire in front and upon both flanks from entrenchments and batteries, and yet keeping the succouring force at bay, while their comrades ascend the height, he feels that the agonizing suspense which intervenes between the projecting of a perilous exploit and its successful execution, is gradually sub- BATTLE OF CERRO GORDO. siding into a calm confidence that with such men, and led by such officers, victory is as certain as that the sun shines, or the water flows. Nor was this confidence misplaced. Onward they rushed, impelled by the double consciousness, that the eyes of the Generalin-chief were upon them, and of the terrible consequences that would follow a disastrous issue. Harney led the way, — conspicuous above all others by his full military uniform, and his commanding stature. Waving his sword, and calling on his men to follow, he rapidly ascended, in full view of the enemy, while his cheering voice infused into the breasts of his command the same energy and dauntless enthusiasm which animated his own. It was a race for glorious renown, wherein each strove to be foremost. The front ranks fell, but the survivors still pressed on ; and still, above the thunder of the war, rose high, distinct, and clear, the voice of their intrepid leader. Near the crest of the hill, and encircling the Tower, another breastwork was to be carried. It was done ;— and then, swarming up the walls of the fort, they bayoneted the artillerists at their guns, and drove the desperate enemy from his central defence down the steep sides of the hill, in utter and irremediable rout. Lieutenant Ewell, the first to mount the breastworks, here fell mortally wounded. Lieutenant Van Dorn killed two Mexican soldiers with his own hands. Captain Magruder promptly turned the captured guns upon the flying foe. Sergeant Henry of the th infantry hauled down the Mexican standard,—while almost simultaneously with the scaling of the walls, the colours of the st artillery and the d and th infantry were planted upon them amidst the deafening cheers of the conquerors. Such was the famous storming of Cerro Gordo. In a little while, having been delayed by the rugged character AA of the route it had to traverse, Worth's division arrived, and shortly afterwards, the nearest batteries below surrendered. The remainder of the division of Twiggs was equally successful. The Second Brigade, under Riley, after moving some distance on the enemy's left, cleared the foot of the ridge, which was infested with their skirmishers, and then attacked the reverse of Cerro Gordo, gaining the crown of the hill at the same moment that the First Brigade reached it from the front. After the capture, both brigades joined in the pursuit. The volunteers, under Shields, were moving upon the extreme left of the enemy. Upon approaching the Jalapa road, a battery of five pieces was discovered, in front, supported by a large force of cavalry and infantry. While forming his men for the attack, Shields fell dangerously wounded, and Colonel Baker of the Illinois regiment assuming the command, charged the enemy's lines, supported by the d and part of the th Illinois volunteers; under Harris and Falman, and the New York regiment, under Colonel Burnett, when the enemy, already disheartened by the fall of Cerro Gordo, and being threatened at the same time by a detachment of the d infantry, upon his right, after a few random shots scattered in all directions, leaving his guns, baggage, specie, provisions, and camp equipage, in the hands of the victors. On the enemy's right, Pillow was less fortunate. After encountering many obstacles and delays, he took up his position in front of the river batteries, and attempted to carry them by assault ; but a murderous enfilading fire opening upon him, he was compelled to fall back with considerable loss. A second time he attempted the assault, with a storming force composed of the d Tennessee regiment, and a company each from Pennsylvania and Kentucky, all under the command of Colonel Haskell, an officer already distinguished by his gallant BRIG. GEN JAMES SHIELDS. conduct in the affair at Medellin. This column, after having sustained itself under a galling fire of grape and musketry until the Tennessee regiment was nearly annihilated, and the supporting companies proportionably shattered, was also withdrawn beyond the range of the enemy's guns. Pillow then organized his command for a third attack ; but in the meanwhile Cerro Gordo had fallen, and General La Vega, finding himself threatened from the Tower, and cut off from all support, surrendered himself, with three thousand men, prisoners of war. The battle was now ended. On the other side of the mountain Generals Santa Anna, Almonte, and Canalizo, with eight thousand men, were already in full retreat, and the pursuit of the fugitives commenced. Harney's dragoons, with Worth's division of regulars, dashed forward in advance. The brigades of Twiggs, Shields, and Riley soon followed, and from mid-day until set of sun the pursuit was urged with an energy that not only left the flying Mexicans no time to rally, but broke and dispersed them utterly. At length the wearied victors halted at various distances along the national road, the furthest in advance being within ten miles of the beautiful city of Jalapa, and fifteen from the scene of action. The fruits of this glorious victory were three thousand prisoners, between four and five thousand stand of arms, forty-three pieces of splendid bronze artillery of large calibre, mostly manufactured at the Royal Foundry of Seville, and a large quantity of fixed ammunition of superior quality. Our loss during the two days, was sixty-three killed, and three hundred and ninety-eight wounded. That of the enemy was supposed to be, in killed and wounded, nearly twelve hundred. The appearance of the battle-field, as described by an eyewitness, was appalling to the sight. ci A dragoon we encountered on the way kindly offered to be our guide, and from him we learned the positions of the different armies, their divisions and subdivisions. As winding around the hills by the national road, the enemy's entrenchments, their barricaded heights, strong forts, and well defended passes came in view, we halted, and gazed for several moments in mute amazement. No one, from reading the newspaper accounts or the reports of the generals, can form a proper idea of the advantages possessed by the enemy in his chosen position. The battle, I knew, had been fought and won by our troops ; yet it seemed, in its bare, still reality, a dream. I could not shake off this feeling as I rode along the enemy's lines of entrenchments, entered his dismantled forts and magazines, and looked from his chosen heights upon the paths up which our troops rushed into the jaws of death. t Passing down the ravine where the National Guard had three times attempted to dislodge the mounted riflemen, who, supported by the howitzer battery, literally rained death among their ranks, I was obliged to turn back and retrace my steps. The gorge was choked up with the mangled bodies of the flower of the Mexican army. The wolf-dog and the buzzard howled and screamed as I rode by, and the stench was too sickening to be endured. Returning to the national road, we passed a large number of cannon taken by our troops, and saw piles of muskets, charred with fire, in heaps, where they had been heaped and burned. * * * * cc All along the road were the bodies of Mexican lancers and their horses, cut down by Colonel Harney's dragoons, when these fire-eaters chased Santa Anna and his retreating troops into and beyond Jalapa. Almost every man's skull was literally split open with the sabres of our horsemen, and they lay stretched upon the ground in ghastly groups." From the old camp at Plan del Rio, where he had established his hospital for the sick and wounded, Scott forwarded to the Department of War the following despatch :— " HEAD-QUARTERS OF THE ARMY, Plan del Rio, miles from Vera Cruz, April , . SIR : The plan of attack, sketched in General Orders, No. , forwarded herewith, was finely executed by this gallant army, before two o'clock, P. M., yesterday. We are quite embarrassed with the results of victory—prisoners of war, heavy ordnance, field batteries, small arms, and accoutrements. cc About , men laid down their arms, with the usual proportion of field and company officers, besides five generals, several of them of great distinction—Pinzon, Jarrero, La Vega, Noriega, and Obando. A sixth general, Vasquez, was killed in defending the battery (tower) in the rear of the whole Mexican army, the capture of which gave us those gloridus results. it Our loss, though comparatively small in numbers, has been serious. Brigadier-General Shields, a commander of activity, zeal, and talent, is, I fear, if not dead, mortally wounded. He is some five miles from me at the moment. The field of operations covered many miles, broken by mountains and deep chasms, and I have not a report, as yet, from any division or brigade. cc Twiggs's division, followed by Shields's (now Colonel Baker's) brigade, are now at or near Xalapa, and Worth's division is in route thither, all pursuing, with good results, as I learn, that part of the Mexican army—perhaps six or seven thousand men—who had fled before our right had carried the tower, and gained the Xalapa road. cc Pillow's brigade alone, is near me at this depot of wounded, sick, and prisoners ; and I have time only to give from him the names of st Lieutenant F. B. Nelson, and d C. G. Hill, both of the d Tennessee foot (Haskell's regiment), among the killed, and in the brigade , of all ranks, killed or wounded. el Among the latter, the gallant brigadier-general himself has a smart wound in the arm, out not disabled ; and Major R. Farqueson, d Tennessee, Captain H. F. Murray, d Lieutenant G. T. Sutherland, st Lieutenant W. P. Hale, Adjutant, all of the same regiment, severely, and st Lieutenant W. Yearwood, mortally wounded. And I know, from personal observation on the ground, that st Lieutenant Ewell, of the Rifles, if not now dead, was mortally wounded in entering, sword in hand, the entrenchments around the captured tower. ci d Lieutenant Derby, topographical engineers, I also saw, at the same place, severely wounded, and Captain Patten, d United States infantry, lost his right hand.* Major Sumner, d United States dragoons, was slightly wounded the day before, and Captain Johnston, topographical engineers (now lieutenant-colonel of infantry), was very severely wounded some days earlier, while reconnoitring. I must not omit to add, that Captain Mason, and d Lieutenant Davis, both of the Rifles, were among the very severely wounded in storming the same tower. I estimate our total loss, in killed and wounded, may be about , and that of the enemy at .f In the pursuit towards Xalapa ( miles hence), I learn we have added much to the enemy's loss in prisoners, killed, and wounded. In fact, I suppose his retreating army to be nearly disorganized, and hence my haste to follow, in an hour or two, to profit by events. cc In this hurried and imperfect report I must not omit to say, that Brigadier-General Twiggs, in passing the mountain-range beyond Cerro Gordo, crowned with the tower, detached from his division, as I suggested the day before, a strong force to carry that height, which commanded the Xalapa road at the foot, and could not fail, if carried, to cut off the whole, or any part of the enemy's forces from a retreat in any direction. cc A portion of the st artillery, under the often-distinguished Brevet-Colonel Childs; the d infantry, under Captain Alexander; * The General is in error ; it was a portion of his left hand Captain Patten lost. t A very inaccurate estimate—our lose was , killed and wounded ; that of the enemy nearly . See data. . IsAJ GEN GIDEON J. PILLOW. the th infantry, under Lieutenant-Colonel Plymton ; and the Rifles, under Major Loring, all under the temporary command of Colonel Harney, d dragoons, during the confinement to his bed of Brevet Brigadier-General P. F. Smith, composed that detachment. The style of execution, which I had the pleasure to witness, was most brilliant and decisive. ( The brigade ascended the long and difficult slope of Cerro Gordo, without shelter, and under the tremendous fire of artillery and musketry, with the utmost steadiness, reached the breastworks, drove the enemy from them, planted the colours of the st artillery, d and th infantry—the enemy's flag still flying—and, after some minutes' sharp firing, finished the conquest with the bayonet. ic It is a most pleasing duty to say that the highest praise is due to Harney, Childs, Plymton, Loring, Alexander, their gallant officers and men, for this brilliant service, independent of the great results which soon followed. (g Worth's division of regulars coming up at this time, he detached Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel C. F. Smith, with his light battalion, to support the assault, but not in time. The general reaching the tower a few minutes before me, and observing a white flag displayed from the nearest portion of the enemy towards the batteries below, sent out Colonels Harney and Childs to hold a parley. The surrender followed in an hour or two.* cc Major. General Patterson left a sick-bed to share in the dangers and fatigues of the day ; and after the surrender went forward to command the advanced forces towards Xalapa. g( Brigadier-General Pillow and his brigade twice assaulted with great daring the enemy's line of batteries on our left, and though without success, they contributed much to distract and dismay their immediate opponents. President Santa Anna, with Generals Canalizo and Almonte, * These were the batteries commanded by General Pinzon, a mulatto officer. anu some six or eignt mousanu men escapeu towitrus nalapit just before Cerro Gordo was carried, and before Twiggs's division reached the national road above. ic I have determined to parole the prisoners—officers and men —as I have not the means of feeding them here beyond to-day, and cannot afford to detach a heavy body of horse and foot, with wagons, to accompany them to Vera Cruz. Our baggage-train, though increasing, is not half large enough to give an assured progress to this army. ci Besides, a greater number of prisoners would, probably, escape from the escort, in the long and deep sandy road, without subsistence—ten to one—than we shall find again, out of the same body of men, in the ranks opposed to us. Not one of the Vera Cruz prisoners is believed to have been in the lipes of Cerro Gordo. Some six of the officers, highest in rank, refuse to give their paroles, except to go to Vera Cruz, and thence, perhaps, to the United States. (c The small-arms and accoutrements, being of no value to our army here, or at home, I have ordered them to be destroyed ; for we have not the means of transporting them. I am, also, somewhat embarrassed with the — pieces of artillery,* all bronze, which we have captured. It would take a brigade, and half the mules of our army, to transport them fifty miles. ci A field-battery I shall take for service with the army ; but the heavy metal must be collected, and left here for the present. We have our own siege-train and the proper carriages with us. cg Being much occupied with the prisoners, and all the details of a forward movement, besides looking to the supplies which are to follow from Vera Cruz, I have time to add no more—intending to be at Xalapa early to-morrow. We shall not, probably, again meet with serious opposition this side of Perote—certainly not, unless delayed by the want of the means of transportation, * Forty-three. 'VIVrIVf " nave the I to remain, sir, With nip respect, your most obedient servant, WINFIELD SCOTT. Hon. WM. L. MA.RCY, Secretary of War." The complete rout at Cerro Gordo opened the way to Jalapa. The partially completed defences of the La Hoya pass, offered no molestation to the march of our troops. On the th, the day succeeding the battle, the division of Twiggs was in undisputed possession of Jalapa, while Worth's division pushed on to Perote, and captured the town and castle without resistance ; receiving at the hands of Colonel Velasquez, the commissioner appointed to surrender them by the Mexican government, the following arms and munitions of war :— cg Fifty-four guns and mortars, iron and bronze, of various calibres, in good service condition,— eleven thousand and sixty-five cannon-balls, fourteen thousand three hundred bombs and hand-grenades, and five hundred muskets."* Here Worth rested, and recruited his command. After remaining for about two weeks, he again resumed his line of march, and on the th of May, accompanied by Quitman's brigade of volunteers, entered the city of Puebla, with no more opposition than a slight skirmish, near Amosoque, distant about twelve miles from the city. There his progress had been threatened by a force of about three thousand cavalry, under General Santa Anna ; but a few discharges from the light artillery, dismounting some ninety of the enemy, sufficed to clear the way, and by ten o'clock the next morning, the division, numbering four thousand men, stacked their arms in the Grand Plaza. •	Worth's Report, Perote, April , . CHAPTER XIX. Astonishment of the Pueblanos — Appearance of the American Troops—Their Characteristics—Embarrassing Position of the General-in-chief—Discharge of the twelve months Volunteers—Prospects of Peace—Mexican Affairs—Defiance of the Mexican Congress—Proclamation of General Salas—Anaya declares the Capital in a state of Siege—Coalition of the Mexican States—Scott's Address to the Mexican People—Feeling of the United States Government—Buchanan's Letters—American Commissioner appointed—Mexico refuses to Treat—Condition of the American Army—Arrival of Reinforcements. NOTHING could exceed the astonishment of the citizens of Puebla, at witnessing the entrance of the small force of four thousand American troops, one-half of whom were raw, and only partially disciplined volunteers, into the midst of a hostile population of eighty thousand souls. The false and exaggerated reports which had been circulated throughout the interior of Mexico, in regard to the ferocicius prowess of the North Americans,—their gigantic stature—their cannibal propensities, and their wonderful skill in arms, had disposed the more imaginative of the Pueblanos to expect the arrival of a body of men far different in personal appearance from those who marched with quiet confidence into their midst. Great, indeed, was the wonder of the citizens to find, that in stature and apparent physical strength, the conquerors were not superior to the conquered ; that the arms of the Anglo-Americans were plain and unpretending, their equipments indifferent in the extreme, and themselves apparently worn down with the fatigue of a long march, the sickliness of the country through which they ALA bad passed, and the alternations of heat and cold to which they had been constantly exposed. The undaunted courage, and indomitable resolution, which bad made every man a hero, could not be exaggerated. The commonest soldier in our armies fought as if the fate of the battle and the fortunes of his country rested upon his single arm. The battles won by Taylor and Scott, from Palo Alto to Cerro Gordo, are as much instances of individual daring, as of fine military skill. To us it appears as if they present a new and terrible feature in warfare—terrible from its very effectiveness—the combination of the individual heroism of the old chivalric era, with the warlike science of modern times. In European warfare, men are still considered as mere machines, to be impelled or withdrawn as the science of the commander shall dictate. The sentiments of a pure patriotism, as acting upon and stimulating the gallantry of the soldier, are but little regarded, while thought, genius, ability, or a quick perception in the masses, are considered as obstacles to success rather than calculated to promote it. The perfection of the art has been hitherto supposed to consist in a blind unreasoning obedience—the accuracy of mechanism in military evolutions, and a perfect knowledge of the manual. But, unfortunate indeed would that general be, who should attempt to snatch a victory from the grasp of the Anglo-American by means of the present continental system of military tactics. Enthusiastic in temperament, and elastic under reverses—aocustomed to a life of hardihood and adventure—familiar from childhood with the use of arms—pressing forward continually to the outskirts of civilization, whence he has often to repel savage incursions, and often obliged to maintain his own rights by his own hand, in states and territories thinly settled, where the force of law is many times administered with difficulty or inefficient in its operation, the Anglo-American has learned, in a severe school, the benefits of self-reliance, and the good results which never fail to follow the strong will, supported by a corresponding energy. The system of volunteer training has also been of service ; so that, while retaining much that is really useful in modern military science, and acting when necessary under its strictest rules, he still maintains an independence of thought and action which enables him to cope successfully with dangers from which no mere skill could extricate him, and to win battles after science has pronounced them irrecoverably lost. While Worth took possession of the hills commanding Puebla, and accumulated supplies, the General-in-chief, still at Jalapa, found himself placed in a situation of the utmost embarrassment. Of the twenty-three regiments of twelve months volunteers called out by the President in May and June , seven regiments were with Scott, and the period for which they enlisted was now about to expire. By the abstraction of these forces, honourably discharged and amounting to nearly three thousand men, the army was so greatly reduced that the General-in-chief found himself compelled to await for reinforcements before he could resume offensive operations. It is true, that the spirit of the Mexican army appeared to have become completely paralyzed by the terrible defeat of Cerro Gordo, but the main body, which escaped with Santa Anna and Almonte, amounting to eight thousand men, still remained as a nucleus around which many yet eager and untried spirits might /ally. The prospects of peace also seemed further off than ever. Indignant under their repeated disasters, the cry of the Mexican people was still for vengeance. The chief papers of the capital and departments of Mexico, teemed with appeals to the honour and patriotism of the nation, and every effort which a feeble government could exert, was made to induce the people to rise cc en masse" and exterminate their invaders. On the th of April, the Mexican Congress passed a series of resolutions, the preamble to which is as follows :— cg The Sovereign Constitutional Congress of Mexico, in use of the full powers with which it has been invested by the people of the republic for the sacred object of preserving its nationality, and faithful interpreters of the firm determination of their constituents to carry on the war which the government of the United States is waging against the nation, without losing courage at any kind of reverses, and considering that in these circumstances, the first public necessity is to preserve a centre of union, to direct the national *defence with all the energy which the state of things demands, and to avoid even the danger of a revolutionary power arising to dissolve the national union and destroy its institutions, or to consent to dismember its territory, has decreed the following." The first resolution asserts the power of the s'upreme government "to take the necessary measures to carry on the war, defend the nationality of the republic, and to save the republican form of government, popular and federal, under which the nation is constituted." The second resolution, in explanation of the true intent and meaning of the first, states that "the foregoing article does not authorize the Executive to make a peace with the United States, conclude negotiations with foreign powers, nor alienate the whole or a part of the territory of the republic." The fourth article declares null and illegal e( all treaties and arrangements made between the United States and any authority who should substitute itself for the supreme powers legally established." And in the fifth, every individual is denounced as a traitor, gc who, either in his private capacity or as a public officer, either privately, or invested with any incompetent authority, or of revo- lutionary origin, shall treat with the government of the United States." It is sufficiently evident from the above action of Congress, that great distrust had entered the public mind after the repeated reverses which the nation had suffered. The sincerity of Santa Anna was doubted, and fears were entertained that he would make peace with the invaders, on terms which should not only yield Texas to the conquerors, but dismember a portion of the republic. Congress also entertained a suspicion that the priesthood, alarmed by their attempt to appropriate to the uses of the government a portion of the revenues of the church, were engaged in intrigues, which had for their object the overthrow of the government and the establishment of royalty, either in the person of Santa Anna himself, Paredes, or some continental prince. Fearful of these attempts, they sought to intimidate them by a course of action which showed they were cognizant of the designs entertained, and which should check them if attempted. In strict accordance with the defiant resolves of Congress, on the following day General Salas issued a proclamation to the citizens, in which he exhorts them to unite at general head-quarters, and enroll themselves as guerrilleros for the purpose of attacking and destroying the invaders in every manner imaginable. (c War without pity unto death!" he continues, "will be the motto of the guerrilla warfare of vengeance."• On the first of May, Anaya, the President ad interim, declared the city of Mexico in a state of siege, assigning as his reason the necessity of providing for the defence of the capital and the common defence of the nation against the enemy. On the th, following out the above proclamation, General Bravo, Commander-in-chief of the Army of the Centre, issued a decree, wherein all Mexicans between the ages of sixteen and sixty are * Extracts from El Monitor. called upon to enroll themselves fr the defence of the capital, under the penalty of being considered as traitors, and treated as such, in the event of evasion or refusal. Nor was this exhibition of energy confined to the capital only. The states of San Luis, Mexico, Zacatecas, Jalisco, and Queretaro, bound themselves, by a solemn league and covenant, to preserve the unity of the republic ; and in their address to the Mexican people, they protest, (c that never will they consent to, nor be bound by any convention or treaty of peace with the North American enemy, so long as he threatens or occupies the capital or any part of the Mexican republic ; they also will not recognise any general suspension of arms which should compromise all the belligerent forces of the nation ;" and they close by asserting their determination to aid with their private resources the general government, independent of the assistance they are bound by, law to give ; so that the one cause — common to them in its disgraces and its perils — may be sustained, the national credit and honour re-established, and all possible opposition and resistance made to every attack upon the popular federal representative system."• Had these various resolutions been as firmly carried out as they were pertinaciously insisted upon, it is possible that victory might yet have inclined to the Mexican standard ; but there is a vast difference between the energy which can be exhibited in fiery denunciations, and the spirit necessary to meet in successful conflict even a mere handful of resolute men. In an equally firm, but far more moderate tone, was the proclamation of General Scott, addressed also to the Mexican nation, and dated Jalapa, May th, . It is a paper which proves him to be as accomplished in diplomacy, as in the art of war. In this admirable document, after briefly alluding to the causes which precipitated the war, and the successes that had in every New Orleans Bulletin. battle attended the American arms— successes which he attributes more to the unskilfulness of the Mexican generals than to the want of valour in their troops—he concludes by saying :— cc Again, Mexicans of honourable pride — contemplate the lot of peaceful and laborious citizens, in all classes of your society. The possessions of the church menaced and held out as an incitement to revolution and anarchy ; the fortunes of rich proprietors pointed out for plunder to the ill-disposed ; the merchant and the artisan, the labourer and the manufacturer, burdened with contributions, excises, monopolies, taxes upon consumption, surrounded with restrictions and charged with odious internal customs ; the man of letters and the statesman, the man of liberal knowledge who dares to speak, persecuted without trial by some faction, or by the rulers who abuse their power ; criminals unpunished and set at liberty, as were those of Perote—is this, then, Mexicans, the liberty which you enjoy ? cc I will not believe that the Mexicans of the present day are wanting in courage to confess errors which do not dishonour them, and to adopt a system of true liberty, of peace, and union with their brethren and neighbours of the north ; neither will I believe that they are ignorant of the falsity of the calumnies of the press, intended to excite hostility. No ! public sentiment is not to be created or animated by falsehood. We have not profaned your temples, nor abused your women, nor seized your property, as they would have you believe. ccWe say this with pride, and we confirm it by your own bishops, and by the clergy of Tampico, Tuspan, Matamoros, Monterey, Vera Cruz, and Jalapa, and by all the authorities, civil and religious, and the inhabitants of every town we have occupied. cc We adore the same God : and a large proportion of our army, as well as of the people of the United States, are Catholics, like yourselves. We punish crime, wherever we find it, and reward merit and virtue. cc The army of the United States respects, and will always respect private property, of every description, and the property of the Mexican church. cc Mexicans! the past cannot be remedied, but the future may be provided for. Repeatedly have I shown you, that the government and people of the United States desire peace, desire your sincere friendship. cc Abandon, then, rancorous prejudices ; cease to be the sport of individual ambition, and conduct yourselves like a great American nation ; leave off at once colonial habits, and learn to be truly free, truly republican, and you will become prosperous and happy, for you possess all the elements to be so. Remember that you are Americans, and that your happiness is not to come from Europe. cc I desire, in conclusion, to declare, and with equal frankness, that, if necessary, an army of one hundred thousand Americans could promptly be brought, and that the United States would not terminate their differences with Mexico (if compelled to do so by force of arms) in any manner uncertain, precarious, or dishonouring to yourselves. I should insult the intelligent of this country if I had any doubt of their acquaintance with this truth. cc The order to form guerrilla parties to attack us, I assure you can procure nothing but evil to your country, and no evil to our army, which will know how to proceed against them ; and if, so far from conciliating, you succeed in irritating, you will impose upon us the hard necessity of retaliation, and then you cannot blame us for the consequences which will fall upon yourselves. cc I am marching with my army upon Puebla and Mexico—I do not conceal it ; from those capitals I shall again address you. I desire peace, friendship, and union—it is for you to select, whether you pzefer war ; under any circumstances, be assured I shall not fail my word. WINFIELD- SCOTT." That the government of the United States was really desirous of peace there cannot be the least doubt. It had originally contemplated nothing more than a small border war, in which the Mexican troops, being beaten, would retire from the flontier line, and, by the conclusion of an armistice, leave the existing difficulties to be settled by negotiation. In this expectation, however, our government was deceived. It had not sufficiently considered the pride and obstinacy which have always formed the two most prominent elements of the Spanish character. The revolt of Texas, and the establishment of its independence, were sufficiently mortifying to Mexican pride. With the mortification was coupled hatred of the United States, from which the original settlers of Texas came ; that increased on the incorporation of the latter with the states of the Northern Confederacy, and became an implacable hostility, when the Army of Occupation, not content with Texas, carried its aggressive banner to the banks of the Bravo. The hatred with which an American was regarded in all parts of the Mexican republic, was by no means of recent origin. The unexampled prosperity of the United States, and its consequent rapid increase in power ; its energetic character, and the wonderful vitality which able legislation had infused into every part of the body politic ; had long been viewed by the Mexicans with feelings of ill suppressed jealousy and distrust. A presentiment natural to a weak nation watching the advancing and gigantic strides of a powerful neighbour, seems to have constantly stimulated this feeling of antagonism. This presentiment was, that a collision must some day take place, and upon the results which followed would depend the question of Mexican nationality. Hence, in some respects, arose the early anxiety to measure their strength with that of the ,c barbarian of the north," and the disasters that followed repeated trials, wounded still deeper a self-love, which attributed its defeats to every other than tenacity, and the use of arms ; and the great military skill and undaunted resolution of the officers by whom they were conducted. Had but a single victory crowned the arms of Mexico, it is possible that from the vantage ground thus obtained, and with her national honour soothed by an unwonted' triumph, she might have consented to open negotiations ; but, defeated in every battle, pride, shame, and a galling sense of the presence of a victorious enemy, goaded her on to new offorts, only to end in more terrible disasters. As early as the th of April, Mr. Buchanan wrote to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in answer to a previous communication, in which the latter declined, according to an earlier proposition made by our government, to send commissioners to Jalapa, Havana, or any other point that might be agreed upon, unless the blockade of the Mexican ports should be first raised, and our army withdrawn beyond the limits of the Mexican territory. In reply, Mr. Buchanan states, that the President holds such a preliminary condition to be wholly inadmissible, both as calcu- lated to prolong the war, and as contrary to the usages of nations ; and that he will not make further overtures for the opening of negotiations, at least until he shall have reason to believe that such will be accepted by the Mexican government. Devoted, however, to honourable peace, he is determined that the evils of war shall not be protracted one day longer than shall be rendered absolutely necessary by the Mexican republic. Mr. Buchanan then announces, that, to carry this determination into effect, the President has sent in the quality of commissioner, to the head-quarters of the army in Mexico, Mr. N. P. Trist, First Clerk in the State Department, with full powers to conclude a definitive treaty of peace with the United Mexican States, and recommends him as eminently worthy the confidence and consideration of the, Mexican government.* * Washington Union. This letter, after numerous vexatious delays, was referred by General Santa Anna to the Mexican Congress, that body being convened for the especial purpose of deliberating upon its contents. On the th of July, a quorum of seventy-four members being present, the question' as to whether the commissioner should be received and negotiations opened, was considered, when the committee on Foreign Affairs, upon whom the primary consideration of the subject was devolved, offered a report and resolutions to the effect, c, that it belonged to the Executive under their constitution to receive all ministers and public agents, and to make treaties of peace, alliances, &c. ; that the functions of Congress were limited to the approving or disapproving these treaties when made, and that consequently, until a treaty should be submitted in form, it could take no constitutional action on the subject.* The report being submitted, it was accepted by a vote of fifty-two to twenty-two ; and the letter having been ordered to be returned to General Santa Anna, the Congress adjourned the same day, as if desirous of avoiding any further action upon it. The resolutions thus adopted might be considered expressive of a determination to continue the war, inasmuch as it was well known that the Executive was effectually prevented from taking the initiative in any negotiations for peace by the fifth section of the law passed on the th of April, , in which every public officer is declared a traitor who should enter into any treaty or arrangement with the government of the United States The numerical weakness of the American force in Mexico at this time, may have had its effect in sustaining the determination of the Mexican government, to prolong the war at all hazards. Something, too, they doubtless hoped from the effects of climate upon men unaccustomed to its changes, and unprepared by a sufficiency of clothing to sustain the great contrast between the cool *Synopsis of the Washington Union, August d, .	t.See ante. temperature of the mountainous region in which they were then garrisoned, and the excessive heat of the plains. The Mexicans well knew that sickness and disease had hitherto been infinitely more fatal to our troops, on the route between Vera Cruz and Puebla, than all the battles in which they had been engaged since the commencement of the war. Weak indeed was the condition of our gallant army at that time. On the th of June, Scott wrote to the Secretary of War, stating that the strength of the army had been surprisingly reduced. That in addition to the discharge of seven regiments, and two independent companies of volunteers, there was left in hospital at Vera Cruz about one thousand men—a like number of sick and wounded at Jalapa; two hundred at Perote (afterwards increased to nearly a thousand), and in the hospital at Puebla, one thousand and seventeen. In all, three thousand two hundred, in the short space of two months, or nearly one-fourth of the whole force that disembarked at Vera Cruz. If we add to these the three thousand discharged volunteers, and the killed at Cerro Gordo, we shall not wonder that, after deducting the garrisons of Vera Cruz, Jalapa, and Perote, there remained but the small force of five thousand eight hundred and twenty effective non-commissioned officers, artificers, musicians, and privates.* Thus situated, Scott determined to abandon Jalapa, and withdraw its garrison, together with a portion of the garrison at Perote, in order to place him in a more favourable condition for advancing upon the capital. But the reinforcements, long looked for, and almost despaired of, were at this time fairly on their way. By the th of July, in addition to the garrison of Puebla, the brigades of Pillow and Cadwalader reached the head of the army, increasing the number of effectives—rank and file, to eight thousand and sixty-one men, and swelling the sick list, by the addition of the hospitals from "Scotea Official Despatch, No. . Jalapa, to the fearful extent of two thousand two hundred and fifteen men, and eighty-seven commissioned officers.* About this time, Scott heard that Brigadier-General Pierce had arrived at Vera Cruz with twenty-five hundred recruits, and the General-in-chief determined to delay his march until they also should join him. After various delays, arising from the want of transportation, Pierce reached Puebla on the th of August, with twenty-four hundred and twenty-nine men; and the next day Scott commenced his march for the capital, with an army composed of ten thousand seven hundred and thirty-eight, rank and file. •	Scott's Official Papers, No. . BRIG. GEN. FRANKLIN PIERCE. CHAPTER XX. The American Army concentrated at Puebla—Scott determines to advance on the Capital—Description of the Route—Twigga reaches Ayotla—Tbe Divisions close up—Reconnoissances upon El Pet-ion—Advance by the National Road abandoned —The Army moves round Lake Chalco to the Acapulco Road—Description of the March—Concentration of the Divisions upon the Acapulco Road. THE numerous delays by which a portion of our troops was detained so long at Puebla, were at least beneficial in one point of view, by enabling the new levies, as they came up, to acquire that perfect discipline and thorough knowledge of their officers, without which it is doubtful whether they would have achieved those signal victories which have since made the Anglo-Saxon name a terror to the hearts of the inhabitants of the valley of Mexico. It must be remembered, that of the force which left Puebla for the Mexican capital, nearly one-half was new and untried. Most of them were men suddenly called from the occupations of civil life, from the plough, the loom, the desk, and the anvil ; and though perhaps there were none among them wholly unaccustomed to the use of arms, there were, yet, very few indeed who were expert in the manual, or who could have performed with precision the numerous and complicated manoeuvres, the knowledge of which is always requisite in the presence of an enemy, and so often essential to the success of a battle. The rigid system of military instruction instituted at Puebla, made every man a soldier who arrived early enough to participate OG. in it, so that, before the army left that city, it had acquired the high distinction of being the best disciplined of any which had yet been sent forth by the American nation on the road to conquest. Its subsequent deeds fully proved that this estimate of its character was not less just than true. One of the most remarkable features of the war, was the unbounded confidence which animated the American army on all occasions. No matter by how many obstacles surrounded, or by what numbers opposed, the possibility of defeat never seems to have been entertained for a single moment. To anticipate a battle was to anticipate a victory ; and that the city of Mexico would be reached, in despite of the difficulties which were known to beset the way, was entertained with so undoubting a belief, that the possession of the Aztec capital was assured from the very moment that Puebla was left in the rear. Leaving the meagre force of three hundred and ninety-three men under Colonel Childs to garrison the latter city, and charged with the protection of eighteen hundred sick in its hospitals, the army advanced towards the capital in four divisions, preceded by a cavalry brigade. These divisions had been previously arranged as follows : CAVALRY BRIGADE. COLONEL HARNEY. st Dragoons, Captain Kearney. d	do.	Major Sumner. d	do.	Captain McReynolds. FIRST DIVISION. GENERAL WORTH. d Artillery. 	First Brigade,	d do. COLONEL GARLAND.	th Infantry. Duncan's Battery. Second Brigade,	{	th Infantry. th do. th do. COLONEL CLARKE		 SECOND DIVISION. GENERAL TWIGGS. { { First Brigade, GENERAL SMITH. Second Brigade, COLONEL RILEY. THIRD Mounted Rifles. st Artillery. d Infantry. Taylor's Battery. th Artillery. d Infantry. th do. DIVISION. GENERAL PILLOW. {th Infantry. th do. th do. Magruder's Battery. Voltigeurs. th Infantry. th do. FOURTH DIVISION. GENERAL QUITMAN. First Brigade,	I	New York regiment. South Carolina do. Marines. GENERAL SHIELDS.		Steptoe's Battery. First Brigade, GENERAL PIERCE. Second Brigade, GENERAL CADWALADER. I Second Brigade,	.	d Pennsylvania regiment. COLONEL ROBERTS.		 But though the above was the arrangement of the divisions, the order of march was different. Twiggs's division, preceded by Harney's cavalry, was in advance; then followed Quitman's division ; to this succeeded the division of Worth ; and the division of Pillow brought up the rear. These divisions left Puebla on four successive days, beginning on the th of August, and ending on the th, but were at no time beyond five hours' march, or supporting distance, apart. On the th, the General-in-chief overtook and continued with, the leading division.* The route by which the troops marched was over a rolling road, gradually ascending towards the Sierra Nevada. During the first day of their departure from Puebla, the country through which they passed, was of great natural beauty and fertility. It was well-watered, and bore evidences of the most careful cultivation. In the midst of the magnificent estates before them, were to be seen the haciendas of wealthy proprietors, embosomed in foliage, each with its appropriate chapel gleaming white through the trees, and surrounded by the numerous habitations of the labourers. Upon the left, at the distance of many miles, though seemingly close by, rose high, clear, distinct, and sharply defined in the pure atmosphere of the mountains, the mighty summits of Popocatapea and Iztaccihuatl, clothed densely around their bases with the dark verdure of forest trees, but crowned with everlasting snows ; while nearer yet, and between the road and the mountains, were to be seen the ruins of the pyramid of Cholula, the only vestige remaining of the populous city of the Aztecs, which in the days of Cortez numbered two hundred thousand souls. During the morning of the second day, the face of the country began to wear a more rugged aspect ; the signs of cultivation gradually grew less, and, after passing a few miles beyond the village of San Martin, terminated altogether. The road now became wilder, winding about and over a suc- * Scott's Official Despatches, No. . ( LNIt, Age	.tir% •te r	 'w	I ',..	.. i , ? i /-	, i	• .i.,,	. i.. ,	''' : ilC . , - •	i it	)	- 	t{	, L. • ACtikt: : A	;- ; • .:.,...'.,,^' "	 Pk - h., I	.'. A:— /A	!! !. 	....	......_ cession of mountain ranges, each higher than the after, until it reached at Rio Frio its greatest elevation. Here the advance expected to have been met by a formidable resistance, and such had evidently at one time been the intention of the Mexicans ; but, from some cause or other, the design was abandoned after they had thrown up a few breastworks, and felled a considerable quantity of timber. From the time of leaving Puebla until they reached Rio Frio—a distance of about fifty miles—the troops had been constantly gaining in ascent, so that they now stood two thousand nine hundred and twenty-two feet above the former city, and ten thousand one hundred and twenty-two feet above the level of the ocean. But they were soon to be compensated for the toils of the march by one of the loveliest sights that ever greeted the eyes of a traveller. A few miles further was a sudden turn of the road, and then first burst upon the astonished vision, with the splendour of an enchantment, the glorious valley of Mexico—clothed with rich verdure—traversed by silver streams—dotted with lakes, villages, and haciendas,—and the whole enclosed by an amphitheatre of mountains hundreds of miles in extent, many of them extinct volcanoes, green with forests or white with eternal snow,—with other mountain barriers, rising beyond them and blending in the far distance, with the soft blue sky above. On the th, the leading division encamped for the night at the base of the mountain, surrounded on all sides by the enemy's scouts. The next day, Twiggs reached Ayotla, fifteen miles from the capital. Here he halted until the other divisions came up.* On the th, the different divisions, as they approached the base of the mountains, drew more closely towards each other. Twiggs's division halted at Ayotla, and Worth's at the village of Chalco, five miles distant across the lake in a straight line, but double •	Letter to the New York Courier. tnat uistance Dy Lne road DetWeen Iwiggs ana vv °nil were encamped the divisions of Pillow and Quitman. The National or Vera Cruz Road, by which the troops had hitherto advanced, is approached on the left at Ayotla, by the margin of Lake Chalco, and at a distance of seven miles further on and to the right, is bounded by Lake Tezcuco, which extends to within three miles of the city. The road is a causeway running for a considerable portion of the space intervening between the lakes by marshy and boggy grounds. At a distance of seven miles, or about midway between Ayotla and the capital, rises the lofty mound called El Person. cc This hill or mound completely enfilades and commands the National Road, and had been fortified and repaired with the greatest care by Santa Anna. One side was inaccessible by nature, the rest had been made so by art. Batteries mounting in all fifty guns of different calibres had been placed on its sides, and a deep ditch twenty-four feet wide and ten deep, filled with water, had been cut connecting the parts already surrounded by marshes."* Such was the information gained by a reconnoissance of the work, which was decided to be impracticable, and a second reconnoissance was directed, the next day, the th, upon Mexicalcingo, a village at a fortified bridge across the canal leading from Lake Xochimilco. The reconnoitring party, consisting of the regiment of Mounted Rifles and three companies of cavalry—in all about four hundred men—discovered a road leading from Los Reyes to the left, and followed its windings until within five miles of the city, when they were halted by coming suddenly upon five strong batteries on the hill which commanded the road. Rapidly countermarching, the party quickly discovered that in avoiding one danger they had laid themselves open to another still more terrible. El Person, with its three tiers of works, and its fearful array of cannon, lay directly between them and their camp at Ayotla. " Letter to the New York Courier. Expecting every instant an attack, they dashed forward at their utmost speed, and arrived safely at camp about midnight. This brilliant reconnoissance was pronounced by the General-in-chief "the boldest of the war."• Of the route by Mexicalcingo, General Scott thus wrote to the Secretary of War :— gc It might have been easy—masking the Pefion—to force the passage ; but, on the other side of the bridge, we should have found ourselves four miles from this road on a narrow causeway, flanked to the right and left by water or boggy grounds. These difficulties, closely viewed, threw me back upon the project, long entertained, of turning the strong eastern defences of the city, by passing around south of Lakes Chalco and Xochimilco at the foot of the hills and mountains, so as to reach San Augustine, and hence to manoeuvre on hard though much broken ground to the south and south-west of the capital, which has been more or less under our view since the th instant."f The attempt, therefore, to advance by the National Road was abandoned, and the strength of the defence upon and near the Acapulco road was now to be tested. These consisted of San Antonio, Contreras, and Churubusco. Reversing the order of march, Worth's division now took the lead, Pillow and Quitman followed, while the division of Twiggs brought up the rear, after remaining one day longer at Ayotla, in order to mask the new movement as long as possible, by threatening the Pefion and Mexicalcingo. On the th, Twiggs commenced his march. Upon reaching the village of Buena Vista, he found his train threatened by a force of cavalry and infantry to the number of five thousand men, under General Valencia ; the skirmish and subsequent march is thus described :— tc On our left were large fields of half-grown barley, through * Letter to the New York Courier.	t Official Despatches. ' which was seen advancing in splendid order the enemy's column. It was the most splendid sight I had ever witnessed. The yellow cloaks, red jackets and caps of the lancers, and the bright blue and white uniforms of the infantry, were most beautifully contrasted with the green of the barley-field. Our line of battle was soon formed, and we deployed through the grain to turn their left, and cut them off from the mountains. A few shots, however, from the battery, showed them that they were observed ; and countermarching in haste, they left their dead on the field. Thus ended our fight of Buena Vista. That night we stayed at Chalco. cc The next day we made a long and toilsome march over a horrible road, through which, with the utmost difficulty, we dragged our wagons, by the assistance of both men and mules. The next was nearly the same, except that the road, if possible, was worse than before, as the Mexicans had blocked it up with large stones, rolled down from the neighbouring hills."* The route thus laboriously traversed, lay on the left, along the base of a mountain range, whose sides, often precipitous, would have afforded an enterprising enemy frequent opportunities of annoyance, or the road itself might have been effectually obstructed by blocking up the way with rocks rolled from thy summits of the hills, a task of easy accomplishment ; for, on the right of the road, the ground was frequently marshy and insecure, and occasionally bounded by the actual waters of the lakes. The bed of the road was covered with loose rocks and rugged land, and intercepted by ravines, over which, in many places, the artillery had to be dragged by hand ; and slow, and painful, and fatiguing in the extreme, was the toil by which these difficulties over a circuitous route of twenty-seven miles were at length suc cessfully overcome. On the th, all the divisions were again concentrated in the vicinity of San Augustine and the Acapulco road. * Letter to the New York Courier. By changing the line of march from the Vera Cruz or National Road to the Acapulco road, the formidable defences of the Pefion and Mexicalcingo were avoided altogether ; but there were yet many fortifications to be turned, or taken by assault, and an army of thirty thousand Mexicans to be routed before either of the approaches to the capital would be open to the advance of the American troops. CHAPTER XXI. The Defences around Mexico—National Road ; El Pefion, Mexicalcingo—Acapulco Road; San Antonio, Churubusco, and Contreras—Toluca Road; El Molino del Rey, Chapultepec—Interior Defences—Position and Force of the Mexicans—Movement of Worth's Division upon San Antonio—Reconnoissances across the Pedregal—Twigge marches upon Contreras—Valencia's Fortifications —Indecisive Result of the Day—Smith bivouacs in the Village of Contreras—Perilous Position of our Troops—Victory of Contreras. THE defences of the three great roads which approach the city of Mexico, were as follows :- On the Vera Cruz or National Road, was the mound of El Peflon with its three tiers of works, containing twenty batteries that mounted fifty-one guns, and commanding the causeway by which the Americans were expected to advance, and at its base were fifteen infantry breastworks. It was also, as we have seen, surrounded by a deep ditch filled with water, while the causeway beyond, though broad, was flanked to the right by the waters of Lake Tezcuco, and to the left by marshy grounds. •	As there was a road turning off to the left of the National Road at Los Reyes, leading to a causeway at Mexicalcingo, five miles from the city, the approach to the capital in that direction was defended by eight batteries for thirty-eight guns, and one infantry breastwork; and the difficulty of an advance beyond, was still great, from the causeway being narrow, and flanked to the right and left by water. The movement upon the capital by the National Road, either by storming El Person and following the direct route, or by passing to the left at Los Reyes and forcing the batteries at Mexicalcingo and the causeway beyond, was found too hazardous to attempt with so small an army, and was therefore most wisely abandoned. The Acapulco road was then selected, as being protected by defences of somewhat inferior strength, and as affording a better opportunity for our troops to manoeuvre with advantage. The defences upon this road were those of San Antonio, Churubusco, and Contreras. San Antonio was a village approachable only in front by a causeway flanked by wet ditches or by difficult grounds, composing the outskirts of a field of broken lava, called the Pedregal. Its works consisted of seven batteries for twenty-four guns, and two breastworks for infantry. Churubusco was a strongly fortified hacienda, surrounded on all sides by a high and thick wall, within which was also a strong stone church. In front of the hacienda, without the wall, and embracing two sides of it, was a field-work mounting seven pieces of cannon, which commanded the approach in all directions. Besides these, at a distance of five hundred yards, and directly across the causeway by which it is approached, was a tete-du-pont, or bridge-head, at the crossing of a canal : this was defended by a deep ditch, and mounted three large pieces of cannon. To the left of San Augustine, and distant from it about four miles, was the hill of Contreras, a strongly fortified position commanding a difficult pass through which, by means of a cross road through San Angel and Cuyoacan, the fortifications of San Antonio might have been turned, and those of Churubusco more favourably approached. Upon this hill were twenty-two pieces of cannon, surrounded by a breastwork. On the third approach to the capital, the Toluca road, where the mountains most closely approach the city, were the works of Molino del Rey, and the fortress of Chapultepec. The first consisted of the strong stone buildings of the maga- .. ..ct zine, called c( Casa .Mato," and the foundry of Molino del Rey, protected by a field-battery, the guns of Chapultepec, and infantry breastworks. The second, of the hill of Chapultepec, crowned with the military college, an immense building well fortified ; surrounded at its base by a thick stone wall fifteen feet high, protected at different points by seven batteries mounting nineteen guns, and seven infantry breastworks ; and further defended by mines which perforated the hill in all directions, and by broad and deep wet ditches. Such, then, were the exterior defences commanding all the approaches to the capital. The interior defences, or those more immediately round the city, were of a slighter character, and consisted mainly of the narrow causeways flanked by water, or wet ditches, and upon which breastworks had been hastily thrown up. At the head of these causeways were the Garitas, or small forts immediately protecting the entrance to the.capital. Of the positions and force of the Mexican troops, by which these various works were to be defended, we shall now take occasion to speak. General Valencia occupied the hill of Contreras with seven thousand men, the best and bravest of the Mexican army. A corps of reserve, consisting of twelve thousand men under the immediate command of General Santa Anna, was stationed in front of the village of Contreras, an intermediate point between the hill of Contreras and Churubusco, and so situated as to be able to reinforce the one or the other as circumstances might require. Three thousand troops under General Bravo garrisoned San Antonio, while at the hacienda and the tete-du-pont of Churubusco were from seven to nine thousand men under General Rincon. On the th, Worth's division and Harney's brigade of cavalry, after reaching San Augustine, were thrown forward to reconnoitre San Antonio, and, if possible, to carry or mask it.* Advancing on the direct road to within a mile of that village, they found its front thoroughly fortified with heavy guns, which at various angles commanded the approach through the whole length of the routed- The approach was by a causeway, flanked to the right by marshy grounds, while on the left, extending to the mountains a distance of five miles, was the field of volcanic rocks called the Pedregal. This singular field is in shape an irregular oval—it is skirted occasionally by patches of dense chaparral, and on passing these is found cut up in all directions by deep ravines, and covered with huge masses of rock and rugged lava. The Mexicans believed it opposed an effectual barrier to any attempt which might be made to turn their position in that direction ; but the skilful and daring reconnoissances of the th and continued on the morning of the th, proved, that by the exercise of great energy, perseverance, and severe toil, the Pedregal might be penetrated, and, by a semicircular sweep, the main road beyond San Antonio be gained. By this means, the double purpose would be effected of turning the enemy's position, and cutting off his retreat towards the capital. Meanwhile, also on the th, another reconnoissance was ordered from San Augustine, the head-quarters of the General-in-chief, over the left of the Pedregal and at the opposite side from San Antonio, with the view of avoiding, if possible, the works at the latter place (the assault of which would have involved an immense loss of life), and at the same time reaching Churubusco through the villages of San Angel and Cuyoacan by a road which was known to exist beyond the Pedregal. * Worth's Official Report.	t Ibid. t Scott's Official Despatch, No. . In doing this, however, the entrenched camp upon the hill of Contreras would have to be carried by assault ; but as it was supposed to be less capable of sustaining a defence than San Antonio, this route, if practicable at all, would be preferable to the latter. The reconnoissance continued over the morning of the th, when a route was discovered, through which, however, it was found that a road would have to be opened for the passage of artillery. Pillow's division was accordingly sent forward for that purpose. The division of Twiggs arriving at San Juan, a small village within two miles of San Augustine, was ordered to the front to cover the working parties. The men were directed to sling their blankets across their shoulders, leave their knapsacks behind in the wagons, and put bread and beef for two days in their haversacks. From this order they knew that a battle was impending ; and though somewhat fatigued already with a rugged march of seven miles, they met the requisition with their accustomed alacrity. The distance they had yet to march before reaching the San Angel road, was nearly seven miles more, a considerable portion of which lay through thick chaparral, and over loose rocks and lava, intermingled with prickly pear and cactus, and cut up by deep ditches and ravines. About two o'clock P. M., Smith's brigade reached the summit of a hill, dragging with it Magruder's battery of three pieces, and two mountain howitzers, under Lieutenant Callender, when even the boldest of the advance were suddenly startled at finding themselves within two hundred yards of Valencia's fortifications upon the hill of Contreras. Now it was that the great strength of the Mexican works became distinctly visible. Twenty-two pieces of artillery, mostly of large calibre, commanded the road, between which and the works in front and to the left, was a deep and almost impassable ravine. lc The camp and ravine were closely defended by masses of infan- try, and these again supported by clouds of cavalry at hand and • hovering in view,"* while between Contreras and Churubusco, and within supporting distance of both, was the reserve of twelve thousand men, under General Santa Anna. From an elevated position in San Augustine, many of the movements of the enemy beyond the volcanic field could be plainly seen, and at an earlier hour heavy reinforcements having been discovered approaching Contreras from the capital, Cadwalader's brigade was pushed forward to support Riley, and Pierce's brigade was subsequently despatched to sustain Smith.t Without pausing upon the eminence from which the fortifications had been discovered, Smith ordered the batteries forward, and threw out the Rifles to protect them. The enemy's pickets were soon driven in, and the batteries dashed past at a gallop under a severe fire from the hill. Gaining a position about four hundred yards from the Mexican works, Magruder and Callender opened their fire ; but though the pieces were served with wonderful precision and rapidity, they were opposed by so great a superiority, both in the number of guns and weight of metal — twenty-two against five — that the contest was too unequal on our side to be maintained with any hope of success. Accordingly, after the lapse of two hours, during which, at every discharge from the hill, our troops threw themselves flat upon the ground, to avoid the balls, and then sprang up to serve the guns, the batteries were withdrawn, with the loss of fifteen artillerists and thirteen horses, killed and wounded.t During this time repeated charges of lancers had been repulsed both by Smith's brigade supporting the batteries,. and by the Second Brigade, under Riley. In attempting to gain the San Angel road in the rear of the * Scott's Official Despatch, No. . t Kendall's Letter to the New Orleans Picayune. I Letter to the New York Courier. enemy, Riley became separated from support by the difficult character of the ground. Taking advantage of his isolated position, two or three thousand Mexicans sallied out from the camp, and threw themselves between him and Smith's brigade ; a large body of cavalry also bore down upon him in two successive charges, while the reserve of Santa Anna was discovered closing upon his rear. Notwithstanding the perilous array thus opposed to him, Riley, though hemmed in on all sides, gallantly maintained his ground, beat back both the infantry and cavalry, and by a series of well conducted manoeuvres, executed in the face of the enemy, succeeded, late in the evening, in joining Smith's brigade at the village of Contreras. In the meanwhile the General-in-chief had arrived upon the ground ; and observing, from an eminence overlooking the field of battle, that large reinforcements of the enemy were advancing from the city by the road which, passing through the villages of San Angel and Contreras, led to the entrenched camp, he ordered Morgan's regiment, the th, to push forward and occupy Contreras, and the brigade of Pierce, just arrived from San Augustine, to follow and sustain Morgan. The brigades of Smith and Riley were already moving in that direction, and Cadwalader's brigade, despatched at an earlier hour upon the same point, was found already in position, though much in need of assistance.* For the first time in the history of the war, no impression had been made upon the enemy : and, as the day was drawing to a close, the General-in-chief, accompanied by General Twiggs, who was disabled from following his division, returned to San Augustine, leaving General Smith in command. On approaching Contreras, that active officer discovered the immense reserve of Santa Anna forming on the slope on the •	Scott's Official Despatch, No. . I • ING , CONTRERLS opposite side of the village, and threatening the brigade of Cadwalader, already there and in position. gc The village lay entirely on the other side of the main road, and was divided from it by a small stream running through a deep ravine. On the road, and between it and the stream, was a garden and house surrounded by a high and tolerably strong stone wall. The village was intersected by narrow lanes lying between high dikes enclosing gardens full of trees and shrubbery —the lanes affording cover and the trees concealment for the men. In the centre stood an old stone church."* Forming Cadwalader's brigade on the outer edge of the village, flanked on the right by the d infantry and Rifles, Smith occupied the church with the Engineer company, while the th regiment took up its position in the garden on the road, to protect that avenue and the rear. The enemy now formed opposite in two lines, the infantry in front, the cavalry in the rear and about ten thousand strong. Riley's brigade having arrived in the mean time, Smith determined upon an immediate and energetic attack ; but the troops were disengaged from among the ravines and chaparral with so much difficulty, that it grew dark before his order of battle was perfected, and the design was abandoned. The men now bivouacked for the night. The brigades of Smith and Riley occupied a narrow road running through the centre of the village, while Cadwalader resumed his former position. The brigade of Shields, which came up later in the evening, lay in an orchard near by. But sleep visited not the eyelids of the weary troops on that eventful night, for the indecisive result of the day was succeeded by prospects gloomier still. They were surrounded by a force of eighteen thousand Mexicans, within range of the batteries upon the hill of Contreras, completely cut off from all reinforcements, * Smith's Official Report. and without even the possibility of hearing from General Scott, whose messengers, repeatedly despatched across the Pedregal, returned, one after another, foiled by the darkness of the night and the difficulties of the route. To add to the discomfort of their situation, the rain fell in torrents. The rush of waters choked up the bed of the road where they lay. Drenched and benumbed, they sprang to their feet, and huddling closely together, awaited with desperate resolution the events of the morrow.* But while the ill success of the day, the terrible storm by which they were now assailed, and the threatening aspect of the enemy by whom they were surrounded, all contributed to infuse a feeling of despondency among the troops, an unexpected discovery stirred their drooping spirits with hopeful animation. A route, barely practicable for infantry, had been found by Lieutenant Tower, of the Engineers, leading from the village through a ravine to the rear of Valencia's fortifications ; and Smith instantly determined upon the daring project of carrying them by storm. Dangerous as the execution of this design was, while hemmed in by masses of the enemy's troops, who might at any moment become the assailants, it was instantly acquiesced in by his subordinate officers, and Smith had actually matured his plans before the arrival of Shields. That brave officer, though then the senior upon the ground, and, as such, entitled to the command, not only delicately waived his right to interfere, but took upon himself the perilous duty of hold- . ing the village against the overwhelming force of the enemy posted opposite, and of cutting off the retreat of the fugitives in the event of Smith proving successful. The plan of attack having been arranged, Captain Lee, of the Engineers, volunteered to cross the Pedregal, for the purpose of * Letter to the New York Courier. requesting that a powerful diversion might be made from San Augustine upon the front of the works, while Smith assaulted them in the rear. The hour of three A. M. had been agreed upon as the time when the troops should move forward to the attack ; but, though the march commenced at the hour appointed, it was near daylight before the head of Cadwalader's brigade succeeded in getting out of the village. Riley's brigade led, followed by that of Cadwalader, while Smith's brigade brought up the rear. The rain still fell, and it was so dark that the men were required to keep touch of each other, to prevent their going astray. The path was narrow, and the ground a stiff muddy clay full of rocks, and the difficulties of the march were greatly enhanced by the necessity of advancing by a flank which extended the command to thrice its length.* Eventually, however, the troops succeeded in attaining a point of the ravine from which it was supposed possible to reach the rear of the enemy ; the advance then halted until those behind closed up. It was now about four o'clock on the morning of the th. Forming in line, the wet loads were drawn ; and, with Riley's brigade in two columns on the right, the march recommenced. They were yet about a quarter of a mile from the enemy's camp. Wending their way through a thick orchard, which, to with the darkness, effectually concealed their approach, they debouched into a deep ravine which, running within five hundred yards of the work, led directly in rear and out of sight of the batteries, being screened from them by an intervening hill.t lip to this time it was evident that Valencia was utterly igno rant of the movement which so seriously threatened his position. Prepared for, and anticipating only an attack in front, he seems to have relied upon the vigilance of the main army stationed in * Smith's Official Report.	t Letter to the New York Courier. AA front of the village of Contreras, for intercepting any demonstration which might be made upon his rear. Flushed with the temporary success he had gained on the preceding evening, he distributed promotions among his officers with a lavish hand, and impatiently awaited the renewal of the attack, in full confidence that from so small a body of assailants, operating without either artillery or cavalry, there was nothing to fear, and everything to hope. But he was soon to be sternly undeceived. With celerity and in profound silence, the gallant Riley drew up his noble brigade just under the brow of the hill. The entrenched camp was upon another and rather lower eminence, in front of the one upon which our troops now were ; from the crest of the latter a smooth slope descended directly to the work. The position of Smith's command was now as follows :Riley's brigade was under the brow of the hill facing the rear of Valencia's camp, and awaiting the command to storm. Cadwalader was pressing forward to support Riley. Major Dimmick with Smith's brigade, following in the same direction, changed the march of his command to meet a large body of Mexican cavalry discovered on the left flank. Ransom, with a temporary brigade sent from San Augustine under the guidance of Captain Lee, crossed the ravine in front of the works, to divert the attention of the enemy from the meditated point of attack. These arrangements were completed about sunrise, and then Smith, walking slowly up to Riley's brigade and finding all was ready, gave the word of command" Men, forward !" In an instant, with a wild fierce yell, they sprang up and dashed over the brow of the hill—the Rifles, previously thrown forward to the foot of the slope, protected the storming-party by throwing in a deadly fire upon the startled enemy, and then gallantly rushed forward to participate in the assault. The Mexican fire overshot the stormers, and, before the pieces could be depressed, the men clambered over the earthen parapet with deafening cheers, and attacked the garrison hand to hand. A brief but terrific conflict ensued. Intermingled with the firing, the clash of swords and the crashing blows from musket and rifle stocks could be distinctly heard. Valencia himself suddenly disappeared, while his officers and men, taken by surprise—compacted together into a confused struggling mass—assaulted in their midst, in front and in rear at one and the same moment—were perfectly paralyzed, and suffered themselves to be cut to pieces with dreadful slaughter, while the survivors, unable to resist the impetuous avalanche of intrepid Americans, animated as by one heart, threw down their arms in vast numbers, and took to flight in all directions. Some fled to the mountains, others across the Pedregal, and others again, in the direction of Contreras and San Angel. Five hundred fugitives jammed up in a narrow pass, were headed by thirty men, and surrendered themselves prisoners of war. The road was literally strewn with the dead and dying ; nor did the pursuit pause until it received a check, near the village of San Angel, from the fire of the Mexican reserve. So fierce had been the assault, that the brunt of the action lasted only seventeen minutes, and in that brief space of time the fort had been captured, and its defenders completely routed. touring the storm of the hill, the other portions of Smith's command had not been idle. Cadwalader had ably supported Riley. Smith's brigade under Major Dimmick met the large body of Mexican cavalry, and drove them at the point of the bayonet ; then, turning back, rushed up the slope in front of the work, and fell upon the enemy outside, just as he was escaping from Riley's furious attack from the rear. In the mean time, completely deceived by the masterly arrangements of Smith and Shields, the Mexican reserve remained disastrous defeat of Valencia compelled it to fall back upon San Angel and Churubusco, leaving Shields at leisure to cut off the fugitives, numbers of whom, coming under the fire of the South Carolina regiment, broke away in utter despair, and took refuge among the rocks and ravines of the Pedregal. The victory being achieved before the detachments from Worth's and Quitman's divisions arrived in sight, they were ordered back to their former positions; Worth to attack San Antonio in front with his whole force, while Pillow's and Twiggs's divisions—so lately led by Smith, but now each under its appropriate commander—moving from Contreras through San Angel and Cuyoacan, approached it in the rear. To the skill and bravery of General Persifor F. Smith and his intrepid subordinates, is the American nation indebted for the great victory of Contreras. . Its results were, seven hundred of the enemy killed ; eight hundred and thirteen taken prisoners, among whom were four generals—Salas, Mendoza, Garcia, and Guadalupe—and eighty-eight inferior officers ; many colours and standards, twenty-two pieces of brass ordnance, thousands of small arms and accoutrements, an immense quantity of shot, shells, powder, and cartridges, besides seven hundred pack-mules and many horses.* Our loss was one officer killed, and one wounded, and about fifty men killed and wounded.f Among the ordnance captured, were the two guns lost by the th artillery—but without dishonour—at the battle of Buena Vista. By a singular and pleasing coincidence, these were first recognised by Captain Drum, of the same regiment, and the tidings of their recovery so exhilarated the spirits of the men under his command, that they sprang rapturously forward, and, amidst deafening cheers, caressed and embraced them as objects of affection long mourned as lost, but now suddenly and unexpectedly restored. CHAPTER XXII. Contreras—San Antonio—Worth's Operations on the th—Topography of the Battle-Grounds of Contreras, San Antonio, and Churubusco—The Advance on Churubusco—Scott's Plan of Battle—Description of the Mexican Defences at Churubusco—The Battle commenced—Operations of Twigga—Terrible Position of Taylor's Battery—Attack of Shields upon the Mexican Reserve—Bravery of the Mexicans—Gallant conduct of the New York and South Carolina Regiments —Mexican Defence of San Pablo—The Deserters—San Antonio forced and turned by Worth—His advance upon Churubusco—Storm of the Tete-du.PontEffect of Duncan's Battery—Storm and Surrender of San Pablo—The Mexicans routed at all Points—Daring Charge of Harney's Dragoons--Result of the Victory—Mexican and American Loss. VIEWED in every aspect, the victory of Contreras was productive of the most important consequences to the American army. It was the first victory gained in the valley of Mexico. It cut the line of the enemy's defences, and rendered no longer a matter of doubt the advance of our troops upon Churubusco ; the only remaining exterior defence, and the last obstacle protecting the causeway by which the Garitas, or small forts at the gates of the city, could be easily approached. It broke down the confidence of the Mexicans in the strength of their fortifications, by exhibiting in the most impressive manner their inability to successfully defend them, and it reinvigorated the spirit of the Americans, to whom the change of route, from the National to the Acapulco road, had been ominous of the difficulties by which they were beset, and upon whom the check received on the th before both San Antonio and the hill of Contrera's, was calculated to conjure up the most fearful presentiments of evil, while it encouraged the enemy to increased exertions. While the operations which led to the indecisive results of the afternoon of the th, were going on over the left of the Pedregal, Worth, on the right of the same field, was pushing vigorously his reconnoissances. These, as we have already related, were at length crowned with success, by the discovery of a dubious route, over which it was hoped that by a semicircular sweep, the main road to Churubusco might be gained, and the batteries of San Antonio left in the rear. But though San Antonio might possibly be thus effectually turned by the infantry, the advance of the heavy ordnance composing the siege train was opposed by obstacles on both sides of the Pedregal, which were almost if not entirely insuperable ; San Antonio was, therefore, ordered to be forced, as, by its capture, a short and excellent road would be open to the artillery. Accordingly, on the morning of the th, Worth's detachment was countermarched from the neighbourhood of Contreras, and his two divisions being again concentrated near each other, the movement upon San Antonio commenced. In order to fully understand the operations of the American troops, on the th and th of August, it must be borne in mind, that from San Augustine, the head-quarters of General Scott, a road swept round the skirts of the Pedregal in an almost continuous circle, ending at Churubusco, on the main road to the capital. To the right of San Augustine the road led to San Antonio, and thence to Churubusco. To the left of San Augustine the road advanced to the Pedregal, ended there in a trail, or mule-path, and again becoming wide after the Pedregal was passed, tapped at right angles the Magdalena road in front of the bill of Contreras, and from thence passing through the villages of San Angel anti Cuyoacan, also terminated in the main road at Churubusco. It will therefore be perceived, that, if the latter road could be opened by taking the works at Contreras,—the object being to reach Churubusco,—the strong position of San Antonio need not be attacked at all. Or, if San Antonio could be taken or turned, it would not have been so necessary to have carried Contreras. But when Contreras was taken, the General-in-chief decided to attack, by a combined movement, the works of San Antonio in front and in rear, so as to open to his advance the road on both sides of the Pedregal, and afford a good passage for his artillery. By this means he would be enabled to approach Churubusco in the rear, through the villages of San Angel and Cuyoacan, and in front by the causeway leading through San Antonio. Churubusco thus became the final and most important point of defence ; and, as a good road led from thence to the city, it was heavily and continually reinforced from that quarter, besides receiving large accessions of fugitives from Contreras, subsequently increased by the addition of fifteen hundred men from San Antonio, until within, and in the rear of the hacienda, the field-work in front, and the tete-du-pont at the crossing of the canal, the Mexican force amounted to twenty-seven thousand men, while the Americans in all parts of the field numbered only nine thousand strong. The work at Contreras being taken, those of San Antonio and Churubusco were next to be attacked. Accordingly, at eight o'clock, A. M., the divisions of Twiggs and Pillow, under the immediate command of the latter, marched from Contreras to Cuyoacan, followed closely by the General-inchief in person. At this village, one mile from Churubusco, and five from Contreras, several roads meet, one of which, stretching off to the right, leads to the rear of San Antonio, two miles distant. At Cuyoacan, Scott arranged his plan of battle, and the disposition of his force was briefly as follows :- Worth, already on the San Antonio road, was to storm that work in front, supported by Cadwalader's brigade (Pillow's division), which was directed to march from Cuyoacan and attack it simultaneously in the rear. When the work was carried, the two divisions were to unite and press forward upon Churubusco, the distance of the latter from San Antonio by the causeway being but little more than two miles. In the mean time, Twiggs was to move upon Churubusco, and attack the works nearest to Cuyoacan. These proved to be the hacienda and convent of San Pablo. Shields, in command of his own brigade (Quitman's division) and that of Pierce (Pillow's division), was to leave Cuyoacan by a third road further to the left, cross the Churubusco river, and, upon reaching the causeway between Churubusco and the city of Mexico, was directed to attack the enemy's right and rear, divert his attention from the movement upon the hacienda, and endeavour to intercept the retreat towards the capital of the garrison from Churubusco, in the event of the attack upon that point proving successful. Quitman, with the remainder of his division, was to remain at San Augustine to guard the hospital, and the siege, supply, and baggage trains. The orders rapidly given to Pillow, Twiggs, and Shields, were as promptly followed up by the march of their respective commands upon the point indicated. Twiggs moving first, with Smith's brigade in advance supported by Riley's, soon reached the vicinity of San Pablo de Churubusco. The works at this point were of the most formidable description. ct They consisted of a fortified hacienda which was surrounded by a high and thick wall on all sides," forming a large square. c Inside the wall was a stone building, the roof of which was flat and higher than the walls. Above all this was a stone church, still higher than the rest, and having a large steeple. The wall was pierced with loopholes, and so arranged that there were two tiers of &en firing at the same time. They had thus four different ranges of men firing at once, and four ranks were formed on each range and placed at such a height that they could not only overlook all the surrounding country, but at the same time they had a plunging fire upon us. de Outside the hacienda, and completely commanding the avenues of approach, was a field-work extending around two sides of the fort, and protected by a deep wet ditch, and armed - with seven large pieces of cannon. It was garrisoned by about two thousand men. This hacienda is at the commencement of the causeway leading to the western gate of the city, and had to be passed before getting on the road. Le About three hundred yards in rear of this work, another fieldwork had been built where a cross-road meets the causeway at a point where it crosses a river, thus forming a ee tete-du-pont," or bridge-head. This also was very strong, and armed with three large pieces of cannon. The works were surrounded on every side by large corn-fields which were filled with the enemy's skirmishers, so that it was difficult to make a reconnoissance. It was tlierefore decided to make the attack immediately, as they were full of men, and extended for nearly a mile on the road to the city, completely covering the causeway."* Lieutenant Stevens, of the Engineers, having reported a one-gun battery across the road leading up from Cuyaocan, the st artillery was detached to turn it by its left. This movement being met by a vigorous fire from the work, Taylor's battery, supported by the d infantry, took up a position fronting the buildings about the church. The tremendous fire which immediately opened from that quarter, indicated not only the presence of a strong force of the enemy, but that the works were more considerable than had been at first reported. What was supposed to be a one-gun battery proved afterwards •	Letter to the New York Courier. ral to have been the right salient angle of the field-work which flanked the hacienda, and enfiladed the road to Cuyoacan, so that when the st artillery attempted to turn it, they found themselves in front of the work, and exposed to a terrible and plunging fire from the musketry, poured through the embrasures of the walls beyond. Gallantly standing their ground, they took such cover as they could get, and picked off the Mexican infantry at the loops whenever an opportunity offered. Taylor's battery, though assailed by a most fearful fire of grape, canister, musketry, round-shot, and shell, which struck down two officers, twenty men, and thirteen horses, not only maintained its position, but, for upwards of two hours, was served with a destructive precision and regularity which won the admiration of all who witnessed it.* While Twiggs was thus actively engaged before the convent and hacienda, Shields, on the extreme left, found his command confronted by the Mexican reserve, consisting of four thousand infantry and three thousand cavalry, drawn up in rear of Chumbusco, and on the road towards the capital. Finding it impossi- ble to outflank the enemy, owing to the superior character of the ground occupied by the latter, and Pierce's brigade being hard pressed in consequence, Sibley's troop of d dragoons and the Rifles, both under command of Major Sumner, were ordered to his support. Shields now withdrew his men, and under cover of the Hacienda de los Portales, determined to attack the enemy upon his front. f From this time the battle gradually deepened ; the resolution of the Mexicans seemed at length to have caught something of the heroic spirit of their Spanish progenitors, and, animated by the knowledge of their superior numbers, and confident in the strength of their position, they kept up an incessant fire of artillery and * Smith's Official Report.	t Shields's Official Report. small arms, until the shouts of their assailants and the cries of the wounded were drowned in the thunder of the conflict. Then it was that the indomitable courage of the American soldiers shone conspicuous. The South Carolina and New York regiments, while forming for the charge, endured with unflinching intrepidity a fire as terrible as ever man witnessed,* while further to the right, from the walls of San Pablo, tier above tier, from the•roof of the hacienda, and from the steeple of the convent, the enemy's infantry poured down such rapid volleys of musketry, that for three hours, the sound of their firing was one continuous roll. -. Deadlier still was the service of the artillery from the field-work in advance. Three of the pieces were manned by deserters from our own army, commanded by the traitor Riley. Knowing that if taken the penalty of their crime was an ignominious death, and that their only safety lay in a victory over 'heir own countrymen, these men fought with the courage of despair, picking off, with the malignity of private revenge, several of the American officers whom they recognised, and, at a subsequent period of the battle, pulling down the white flag of surrender no less than three times.$ It was about mid-day when the battle became general. An hour earlier Worth commenced his movement upon San Antonio. The Second Brigade, under Colonel Clarke, advanced up the causeway to within five hundred yards of the works, and then striking off to the left, across the Pedregal, by the route previously reconnoitred, turned the enemy's right, and regained the road, a short distance in rear of the village, and between it and Churubusco. During this time the First Brigade, under Colonel Garland, remained in front of San Antonio, but masked by an angle of the causeway from the direct fire of the batteries. This position was * Shields's Official Report.	t Letter to the New York Courier.	I Ibid. assumed with a view to a direct assault as soon as Clarke's fire was opened in rear. But the enemy, already shaken by the fall of Contreras, and fearful of being intercepted in his retreat, as soon as Clarke's brigade threatened his rear, commenced precipitately evacuating his position, for the purpose of falling back upon Churubusco. This intention, however, was partially frustrated by the rapidity with which Clarke dashed forward to gain possession of the road. Finding the Mexican garrison in full retreat, two companies of the d infantry, under Captains Morrill and McPhail, and commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Scott, precipitated themselves furiously upon the column and cut it nearly in the centre, the advance portion of it moving upon Churubusco, and the remainder, some two thousand strong, under General Bravo, retreating upon Dolores. As soon as Clailke was known to be engaged, Garland's brigade moved to the assault of the works in front, but, the enemy being found to have already deserted them, it passed quickly through, and the two brigades were soon united and in hot pursuit. Approaching Churubusco, the hacienda and convent of San Pablo were discovered in advance and to the left of the road, crowded with Mexican troops. At a distance of three hundred yards to the right, and still further in advance, was the field-work, or tote-du-poet, garnished with heavy guns and filled with troops. Between the two a continuous line of infantry, and on the left and rear the enemy was also seen in force, as far as the eye could reach.* Twiggs had already been engaged for upwards of an hour, when Worth, previously joined on the causeway by Pillow with Cadwalader's brigade, arrived before Churubusco close on the heels of the fugitives from San Antonio. * Worth's Official Report. •oosaRC£a	ariimvet	 	 .,,	 .)) ity	 _ ,,,,		•-_--. ---=--=	-	 -	'N' ‘k	,ii	_ ,:_tt	 % V -',,,,,	©` '$,'-	/I	i °	 %\d`	- k,	-..	 ,	 .....,	-..'	 ,-,	 iv,":;.-th	 	 The whole of Worth's division, as soon as it came within musket-shot of the works, was thrown to the right of the road, with the exception of the th infantry. The latter, moving to the assault in front, was exposed to a torrible fire of grape, canister, and musketry, which raked the road and momentarily checked its advance, but the th and th infantry, marching by a flank parallel to the road, drove the enemy's skirmishers, and in defiance of a tremendous fire from the tetedu-pont, dashed across the deep wet ditch surrounding the work, carried it at the point of the bayonet, and instantly turned the captured cannon upon the hacienda and convent, before which Twiggs was still hotly engaged. Duncan's battery of light artillery, no longer exposed to the . effects of the heavier metal of the trite-du-pont, now galloped up the main road, and opened upon the field work surrounding San Pablo. gg Seizing the prolongation of a principal face, in a space of five minutes, by a fire of astonishing rapidity, the enemy was driven from his guns in that quarter and the infantry from their intrenchments."* The battery was now directed upon the convent. At this time Duncan's battery, upon the San Antonio causeway; Taylor's battery, further to the left and in front of the field-work; and the captured guns of the tete-du-pont, were all turned upon San Pablo, and within half-an-hour from the storm of the tete-du-pont, the enemy's fire visibly slackened under this terrible combination. As soon as this was perceived by Smith, the d infantry, already advanced under cover of some huts near the right bastion, was ordered to charge ; and, as soon as the brave fellows had partially cleared the ramparts by a fire of musketry, they dashed dauntlessly over, led by Captain J. M. Smith and Lieutenant Sheppard, when the garrison, throwing out several white flags, surrendered themselves prisoners of war, General Rincon, its brave com- Worth's Official Report. mander, appearing at the balcony with Captain Alexander, just as a staff officer despatched by Worth to receive the surrender, arrived within the works. After the storm of the tete-du-pont, and the surrender of San Pablo, that portion of the enemy engaged with Garland's and Clarke's brigades, to the left and rear of the former work, gave way precipitately. Still further to the rear, Shields, operating against the reserve, having determined upon an assault in front, formed his command accordingly. Selecting the Palmetto regiment as the base of his line, the New York and th and th were deployed to the right, and the th to the left; the whole then gallantly advanced, under a withering discharge of small arms, opening their fire as they came up and moving steadily forward. As soon as the enemy was observed to waver, the order to charge was given, and the men rushed upon him with the bayonet, broke his ranks, and put him to the rout, just as the fugitives from Churubusco came wildly up the road, closely pursued by the head of Worth's division * All was now confusion. The Mexican cavalry, putting spurs to their horses, fled panic-struck ; while the infantry, throwing away their arms by thousands, either knelt down by the wayside, and with uplifted hands prayed for quarter, or scattered with the speed of fear in every practicable direction. Harney's bold dragoons were now let loose upon the fugitives, and, galloping along the high road to the capital, sabring as they went, dashed into the enemy's intrencbments at the very gate of the city ; but this impetuosity laid them open to a severe fire of grape from one of the batteries in that quarter, whereby Major Mills, of the th infantry, a volunteer in the charge, was killed. Captain Kearney, who led the squadron, lost his left arm; •	Shields's Official Report. Captains McReynolds and Duperu were severely wounded, and several of the dragoons placed lc hors du combat." Thus ended the famous th of August, a day upon which the American troops, in three separate and distinct actions, upon the same field, assaulted and signally defeated an enemy from three to five times their own number ; captured no less than three strong positions, protected by ten batteries, prepared for sixty-one guns, and within which thirty-eight guns were taken, together with an immense quantity of small arms and ammunition, sufficient to supply a large army. In these actions the Mexicans suffered a loss in killed and wounded of three thousand two hundred and fifty ; and in prisoners two thousand six hundred and twenty-seven, among whom were eight generals, and one hundred and ninety-seven subordinate officers. The American loss was, in killed, sixteen officers, and one hundred and twenty-three rank and file ; and in wounded, sixty officers, and eight hundred and sixteen rank and file. But, though these brilliant events occurred within a few miles of each other, the storm of Contreras and the turning of San Antonio were but subordinate parts of the main action at Churubusco. Here General Santa Anna concentrated all his forces for a final and determined resistance ; and it is but justice to the Mexicans to say, that, at this point, the severe loss on both sides affords the strongest evidence that they fought with greater intrepidity than had been exhibited in any previous engagement. The battle was indeed most obstinate and bloody, and that a crowning triumph should at length have been obtained over a resolute enemy, numbering from twenty-seven to thirty thousand men, by a force of nine thousand Americans, exhausted by fighting, marching, and countermarching for thirty-six hours, is a significant proof of the indomitable courage, energy, and perseverance by which the latter were animated. CHAPTER XXIII. Scott's Note to Santa Anna—The Reply—Armistice—Its questionable Policy—Peace Negotiations—Mexican Commission—Boundaries—American Project—Mexican Counter-Project—Failure of Negotiations—Infringements of Armistice —Warlike temper of the Mexicans—Scott's Letter to Santa Anna—His Answer —Trial of the Deserters—Sentence and Execution. AFTER the victory of Churubusco, and while the American troops were hotly pursuing the discomfited enemy, Scott proceeded to Tacubaya, and established his head-quarters in the bishop's palace. The next morning, while on his return to Cuyoacan, he was met by commissioners to propose a truce, the terms of which were promptly rejected; but, previous to this, an intimation having been received from reliable sources, that an armistice for the purpose of opening negotiations for peace would be eagerly accepted. Scott despatched from Cuyoacan the following note :— " HEAD-QUARTERS, ARMY U. S. AMERICA, Cuyoacan, August , . i "To his Excellency the President and General-in-chief of the Republic of Mexico. tt SIR : Too much blood has already been shed in this unnatural war between the two great Republics of this continent. It is time that the differences between them should be amicably and honourably settled, and it is known to your Excellency that a commissioner on the part of the United States, clothed with full powers to that end, is with this army. ct To enable the two republics to enter on negotiations, I am willing to sign, on reasonable terms, a short armistice. ct I shall wait with impatience until to-morrow morning for a direct answer to this communication, but shall, in the mean time, seize and occupy such positions outside of the capital as I may deem necessary to the shelter and comfort of this army. ct I have the honour to remain, with high consideration and respect, your Excellency's most obedient servant, WINFIELD SCOTT." This letter met with an immediate reply from the Mexican Secretary of War, in which he stated that the proposition for an armistice with the view of an honourable termination of the war, had been received with pleasure, by his Excellency the President and Commander-in-chief, and that Brigadier-Generals Villamil and Quijano, were appointed commissioners to agree upon the terms of the armistice. The commissioners subpequently appointed on the part of the United States, were Major-General Quitman, and Brigadier-Generals Smith and Pierce. Shortly afterwards, articles of agreement were drawn up, and, after some slight modification, received the signatures of Generals Scott and Santa Anna. The terms of the armistice were as follows :— lc The undersigned, appointed respectively, the first three by Major-General Winfield Scott, commander-in-chief of the armies of the United States, and the last two by his Excellency D. Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, President of the Mexican Republic, and commander-in-chief of its armies, met with full powers, which were fully verified in the village of Tacubaya, on the d day of August, , to enter into an armistice for the purpose of giving the Mexican government an opportunity of receiving propositions of peace from the commissioners appointed by the President of the United States, and now with the American army, when the following articles were agreed upon : " ART. . Hostilities shall instantly and absolutely cease between the armies of the United States of America and the United Mexican States, within thirty leagues of the capital of the latter States, to allow time to the commissioners appointed by the United States and the commissioners to be appointed by the Mexican Republic, to negotiate. (c . The armistice shill continue as long as the commissioners of the two governments may be engaged on negotiations, or until the commander of either of the said armies shall give formal notice to the other of the cessation of the armistice for forty-eight hours after such notice. •	tt . In the mean time, neither army shall, within thirty leagues of the city of Mexico, commence any new fortification or military work of offence or defence, or do anything to enlarge or strengthen any existing work or fortification of that character within the said limits. et . Neither army shall be reinforced within the same. Any reinforcements in troops or munitions of war, other than subsistence now approaching either army, shall be stopped at the distance of twenty-eight leagues from the city of Mexico. it . Neither army, nor any detachment from it, shall advance beyond the line it at present occupies. . Neither army, nor any detachment or individual of either, shall pass the neutral limits established by the last article, except under a flag of truce, bearing the correspondence between the two armies, or on the business authorized by the next article ; and individuals of either army, who may chance to straggle within the neutral limits, shall, by the opposite party, be kindly warned off, or sent back to their own armies under flags of truce. ts . The American army shall not, by violence, obstruct the passage from the open country into the city of Mexico, of the ordinary supplies of food necessary to the consumption of its inhabitants, or the Mexican army within the city ; nor shall the Mexican authorities, civil or military, do any act to obstruct the passage of supplies from the city or country, needed by the American army. ( . All American prisoners of war remaining in the hands of the Mexican army, and not heretofore exchanged, shall immediately, or as soon as practicable, be restored to the American army, against a like number, having regard to rank, of Mexican prisoners captured by the American army. " . All American citizens who were established in the city of Mexico prior to the existing war, and who have since been expelled from that city, shall be allowed to return to their respective business or families therein, without delay or molestation. I( . The better to enable the belligerent armies to execute these articles, and to favour the great object of peace, it is further agreed between the parties, that any courier with despatches that either army shall desire to send along the line from the city of Mexico or its vicinity, to and from Vera Cruz, shall receive a safe conduct from the commander of the opposing army. (‘ . The administration of justice between Mexicans, according to the general and state constitutions and laws, by the local authorities of the towns and places occupied by the American forces, shall not be obstructed in any manner. (( . Persons and property shall be respected in the towns and places occupied by the American forces. No person shall be molested in the exercise of his profession ; nor shall the services of any one be required without his consent. In all cases where services are voluntarily rendered, a just price shall be paid, and trade remain unmolested. ( . Those wounded prisoners who may desire to remove to some more convenient place, for the purpose of being cured of their wounds, shall be allowed to do so without molestation, they still remaining prisoners. cc . The Mexican medical officers who may wish to attend the wounded shall have the privilege of doing so, if their services be required. tc . For the more perfect execution of this agreement, two commissioners shall be appointed, one by each party, who, in case of disagreement, shall appoint a third. cc . This convention shall have no force or effect, unless approved by their Excellencies, the commanders respectively of the two armies, within twenty-four hours, reckoning from the sixth hour of the d day of August, . A. QUITMAN, Maj. Gen. U. S... PERSIFOR F. SMITH, Brig. Gen. FRANKLIN PIERCE, Brig. Gen. U. S. A. IGNACIO DE MORA Y VILLAMIL, BENITO QUIJANO. "A true copy of the original. G. W. LAY; U. S. A., Military Secretary to the General-in-chief" " HEAD-QUARTERS OF THE ARMY U. S. I Tacubaya, August , . cc Considered, approved, and ratified, with the express understanding that the word (‘ supplies," as used the second time, without qualification, in the seventh article of this military convention —American copy—shall be taken to mean (as in both the British and American armies) arms, munitions, clothing, equipments, subsistence (for men), forage, and in general, all the wants of an army. That word supplies," in the Mexican copy, is erroneously translated cc viveres," instead of (c recursos." WINFIELD SCOTT, General-in-chief of the U. S. A." [Translation.] it Ratified, suppressing the ninth article, and explaining the fourth, to the effect that the temporary peace of this armistice shall be observed in the capital and twenty-eight leagues around it ; and agreeing that the word supplies shall be translated recur-sot; and that it comprehends everything of which the army may have need, except arms and ammunition. ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA." " HEAD-QARTERS ARMY U. S. OF AMERICA, Tacubaya, August , . " I accept and ratify the foregoing qualification, added by the President-general of the Mexican Republic. WINFIELD SCOTT." ec A true copy of the original. G. W. LAY, U. S. A., ifilitary Secretary to the General-in-chief" " HEAD•QUARTERS ARMY U. S. OF AMERICA') Tacubsya, August , E. "To his Excellency the President and General-in-chief of the Mexican Republic: " SIR : Under a flag of truce, I send Lieutenant Semmes, of the United States navy, who will have the honour to exchange with such officer as may be appointed for the purpose, the ratification of the military convention that was signed yesterday, by commissioners from the American and Mexican armies. it I particularly invite the attention of your Excellency to the terms of my ratification, and have the honour to remain, with high consideration and respect, your Excellency's most obedient servant, WINFIELD SCOTT, General-in-chief of the U. S. army." (Translation.] " NATIONAL PALACI OF MEXICO, August , . I have the note of your Excellency, of this date, in which you are pleased to say that. Lieutenant Semmes, of the navy of the United States, will exchange, with another officer named for that purpose, the ratification of the military convention which was signed yesterday by commissioners of the Mexican and American armies, and calls particular attention to the terms of the ratification. ge The most excellent President orders the undersigned to say to your Excellency, as he has the honour to do, that he orders its ratification within the time agreed in the armistice ; and he is also charged to direct the attention of your Excellency to the terms of ratification by his Excellency the President. «I have the honour to be, &c., LINO JOSE ALCORTA, master of State, and of War and Marine. To his Excellency, the General-in-chief of the U. S. Army." The policy of this armistice has been doubted by many. The disorganization of the Mexican army was so complete after the battle of Churubusco, that it is well known the Americans, by pushing forward the same evening, might have entered the capital, almost without resistance. Whether they were in a condition to advance, after the severe fatigues of the th and th, or whether they could have maintained possession of the city with so many of the surrounding defences still held by the enemy, are questions which have acquired importance from the events that subsequently transpired, and the diversity of opinions hitherto prevailing. To improve a victory to its fullest extent, by grasping all the advantages that victory offers, is at all times the surest way to bring an antagonist to terms ; while, to stop short at the moment of success, enables the enemy to recover from the paralysis of defeat, and but too often jeopards results which might otherwise have been considered certain. The American army being then avowedly in the most favourable position at this time for entering, with comparatively small loss, the city of Mexico, we incline to the belief that the wisest policy would have been to have pressed on, to have taken the opportunity which the panic of the enemy presented, and allowed him no time to recover from his fears, and rally behind new defences, The adventurous Kearney, with the small but daring squadron under his command, did actually penetrate to the very gates of the city ; and, had a sufficiently strong supporting force moved rapidly upon the heels of the fugitives, the small number of defenders behind the breastworks being operated upon by the presence of a victorious array, and their confidence weakened by that vague but powerful sense of terror, which the experience of an overwhelming disaster so certainly creates, would have soon given way, and the network of obstacles, which subsequently compelled the General-in-chief to advance by a different road, being thus easily cut through, perhaps the serious losses which afterwards befell the American troops before the Molino del Rey and Chapultepec, might have been avoided altogether. The reasons given by General Scott for offering an armistice at this juncture were, First : The information of intelligent and disinterested men, that the Mexican Government were prepared to listen favourably to the project of a treaty of peace, amity, and lasting boundaries, of which Mr. Trist, as the agent of the Executive of the United States, was known to be the bearer. Secondly: That it was feared if the capital was entered by force of arms and the government dispersed, a spirit of national desperation would be engendered, and the hope of accommodation indefinitely postponed. Thirdly : A humane desire to shield the Mexicans from the crowning dishonour of beholding a victorious enemy in possession of the chief city of their republic. The argument of others is, that the severe marches and battles of the th and th left the Americans too much shaken by losses and fatigue to advance immediately ; but, as they subsequently took possession of the city with only six thousand men, after storming the formidable heights of Chapultepec, and forcing the well defended Garitas of San Cosm and Belen, it cannot be questioned that the same result could have been at least as readily achieved at a time when the effective force of the army numbered eight thousand men, and while the causeway of San Antonio lay comparatively open to their advance, the few troops at that Garita being already terribly shaken by the victory of Churubusco. •	But, as the General-in-chief admits the ease with which the capital might have been taken on the evening of the th, it may not be amiss to examine how far his own reasons justified either the proposal or the acceptance of an armistice, taking into consideration the commanding position he occupied, with the capital avowedly within his grasp. There is no doubt that the American residents and intelligent neutrals who cautioned General Scott against precipitancy, sincerely believed the Mexicans at length desired peace ; but, as the interior line of defences surrounding the city still afforded the latter a further means of resistance, were time allowed them to reunite their shattered forces, the sincerity of their seeming readiness to treat—taking in view their characteristic pride and obstinacy—might well have been doubted. Every hour's delay was of eminent service to them, by reviving their drooping courage, and by infusing, with increase of numbers, new hopes of eventual success,./ To the Americans the pause was pregnant with danger, not only by closing the avenues easily accessible at present, but by threatening their future safety. A large body of the enemy was known to be in their rear, and their reinforcements were too fa back to be available in the event of an emergency ; while in their front it was soon to be shown how little regard was paid by the enemy to the solemnly ratified articles of the armistice, by the Mexican population being seen openly engaged in the erection of breastworks, and in still further obstructing, in various ways, the approaches to the city. The forcible entrance into the capital, the effect of which it was supposed would jeopard the prospects of peace, was also subsequently made ; and the absolute quiet that ensued was sufficient evidence that the possession of the city and the dispersion of the government, so far from rousing the people to a more clamorous outcry in favour of the further prosecution of the war, was the first event which brought home to them the reality of their condition, and seriously inclined them to listen to terms of accommodation. But, though the armistice may have been impolitic, there is not the slightest reason to suppose that General Scott, in granting it, was actuated by any other feeling than that of the most exalted humanity. The forlorn situation of the Mexican people, proud, obstinate, and unreasoning as they had proved themselves, could not ha've been witnessed by him without a chivalric desire to spare them the last and bitterest scene of degradation—the sight of a victorious enemy within the very walls of a capital which the valour of their ancestors had surrounded with so many heroic associations. Nor could his frank nature have easily imagined them so lost to all sense of moral obligation, as to seek to take advantage of the humane forbearance of the conqueror, by using the respite allowed them, not for the stipulated purpose of terminating existing difficulties by an honourable peace, but with the treacherous view of improving the interval in strengthening themselves for a continuance of the war. A sterner soldier would have pushed on, regardless of the pitiable condition of the enemy ; a humane one would have paused, as Scott did, and, in trusting to the honour of such an enemy, would have found himself in like manner deceived. Although, perhaps, by a wiser policy, war with Mexico might have been avoided, it will redound to the eternal honour of our country, that we conducted it agreeably to the dictates of an exalted humanity ; and that we were ready at all times to terminate a contest which was prolonged by the indomitable obstinacy of the Mexican people. The armistice, however, being ratified, the American troops were quartered in different villages, within supporting distance of each other, leaving Mr. Trist, on the part of the United States, I to open negotiations for peace with the Mexican government' Accordingly, on the th of August, that gentleman wrote to IMr. Pacheco, the Mexican Minister for Foreign Affairs, informing him of his readiness to treat, and on the succeeding day received answer that the Mexican commissioners, then in the act of being appointed, would meet at the village of Atzcopozalco, on the morning of the th ; and, in accordance therewith, Generals Her- rera, Conto, and Villamil, Don Miguel Atristain, and Don Jose Miguel Arroyo, were accredited on the part of the Mexican go, vernment, to confer with Mr. Trist, at the place designated. Negotiation now commenced, but from the lofty attitude assumed by the Mexican commissioners, under the instruction of their government, it soon became apparent that the peace which America so earnestly sought, could only be obtained by sacrifices incompatible with her honour. The preliminary condition insisted upon by the Mexicans, that the treaty should be made upon the basis that they had triumphed and were yet in a situation to successfully, prosecute the war, might have been accorded by the United States with a smile of contempt for the weakness that dictated an assumption so well known to be utterly at variance with the facts; but when Mexico refused to recognise the Rio Grande, which had been claimed by the United States government as the boundary of the two republics, and pertinaciously insisted upon the line of the Nueces, though professing herself willing to stipulate that the interval between the two rivers should remain uninhabited, the impression soon became general, that President Santa Anna had hailed the armistice rather as a means of delaying the advance of General Scott until he was again prepared to oppose him, than as affording an opening for the ratification of a permanent peace. It is true that the cg project of a treaty," of which Mr. Trist was the bearer from his government, was discussed by the Mexican commissioners, and it is equally true that they offered in return a counter-project; but, as Mr. Trist was clothed with no powers to treat for peace upon any other terms than those stipulated in the instrument he had been delegated to present, it could hardly have been supposed that he would assume the responsibility of altering boundaries already strictly defined by his government. The question of boundaries involved a cession of territory by Mexico to the United States, for which the latter offered an equivalent in money. These boundaries, as proposed by the fourth article of the project submitted by Mr. Trist, were as follows : That the boundary line of the two republics should commence at the mouth of the Rio Grande ; follow the middle of that river until it reached the southern boundary of New Mexico ; thence west with that line to the western boundary ; thence north with the river Gila, and through the mouth of that river down the middle of the Gulf of California into the Pacific. By this article it will be seen that the United States demanded the acknowledgment of the Rio Grande as her true boundary, and required the cession by purchase of about ten degrees of thinly inhabited territory, including within its limits the department of New Mexico and Upper and Lower California. In addition to this, a free right of way for ever across the isthmus of Tehuantepec was demanded by a subsequent article. In their counter-project the Mexican commissioners proposed to commence the boundary line of the two republics in the bay of Corpus Christi, thence to the mouth of the Nueces, thence with the middle of the latter river to its source, thence west to the eastern boundary of New Mexico, thence north with that boundary to the th degree of latitude, thence west to the Pacific. In other words, they claimed the disputed territory between the Nueces and the Rio Grande, and declined ceding the greater part of New Mexico, the southern portion of Upper California, or any of Lower California. The commissioners also declared their inability to grant a free right of way across the isthmus of Tehuantepec, on the plea that the Mexican government had, some years before, divested itself of the power to do so, by granting a privilege with reference to this object to a private contractor, by whom it had been transferred, with the authority of the Mexican government, into the hands of English subjects, of whose rights Mexico could not dispose. In an effort to adjust these differences, and finding the Mexican commissioners resolute in adhering to the boundary of the Nueces, as the condition "sine qua non" of peace, Mr. Trist did eventually so far depart from the letter of his instructions, as to offer to refer the question of that boundary to his government, and to abandon the claim to Lower California altogether; but at the same time he insisted upon the cession of New Mexico, and upon this latter point neither party being willing to yield to the other, the negotiations fell through. However sincere the Mexican commissioners may have been, personally, in their efforts to promote a peace, the instructions by which they were fettered showed that their government was far from desirous of participating in such a result. Perhaps, indeed, peace might have been obtained, had the United States been willing to yield all the points of controversy, and further agreed to surrender the line of the Rio Grande and fall back upon the Nueces ; but such a retrogression, even had the Mexican proposition been referred by Mr. Trist, would never have been acceded to by his government. But, long previous to the close of the armistice, the warile temper of the Mexican people had made itself apparent. Independent of their almost undisguised efforts to fortify the approaches to the city, the representatives of the states of Mexico, Jalisco, and Zacatecas united in a protest in which they asserted that "the city of Mexico would not allow the necessary freedom in its discussions and deliberations, if Congress should assemble in that city." They declared also, that any arrangement made in relation to foreign affairs, unless ratified by Congress, would be unconstitutional, and that their only motive for protesting against the negotiation then pending, was to save the republic "from the ignominy of a treaty concluded and ratified under the guns of the enemy, and on the day succeeding unlooked-for reverses." In addition to this, a circular was sent by the Secretary of State to the states of Puebla and Mexico, exhorting the people to gifasp whatever arms they could conveniently obtain, and by fire and sword, and every other practicable means, endeavour to annihilate the invaders. Matters were now drawing to a crisis. On the th of September, the day before the failure of the negotiations was fully ascertained, Scott addressed a letter to the Mexican General-inchief, complaining of repeated violations of the armistice, and threatening a resumption of hostilities, unless full satisfaction was accorded before twelve o'clock of the following day. To this General Santa Anna replied in a letter of the same date, indignantly denying the charges specified, and accusing his antagonist of similar infractions of the truce. This closed the correspondence on the th, the negotiations were publicly declared to be abortive, and both parties entered into active preparations for the renewal of the war:, During the pending of the armistice, an event occurred which produced emotions of painful regret among many of the Mexican people. This was the trial of the deserters from the American army, taken in arms against their own countrymen at the battle of Churubusco. These men, after clandestinely quitting the colours of the United States, had enrolled themselves in the service of the enemy, by whom they had been formed into two companies, under the title of the companies of St. Patrick, commanded by the notorious Riley, a man whose undaunted courage won the admiration even of those who abhorred his treason. They had fought long and desperately in the field-work before the convent of San Pablo, and were not taken prisoners until their Mexican comrades had fled, and their own ammunition was entirely exhausted. At a general court-martial, over which Colonel Bennett Riley presided, twenty-nine of these deserters were tried and found guilty, sixteen of whom were hung on the th of September, at San* Angel, and four the day following, at Mixcoac. At a subsequent general court-martial, of which Colonel Garland was president, thirty-six more were tried and convicted, thirty of whom were also executed at Mixcoac, on the th of September. The remainder on both occasions, amounting to fifteen in number, owing to mitigating circumstances, had their sentences commuted to lashing and branding ; among the latter was the commander, Riley, who escaped the extreme penalty of the law by having deserted previous to the formal declaration of war by the United States. Thus ignominiously perished, by the hands of their indignant comrades, fifty convicted traitors, whose weapons at Buena Vista and at Churubusco had been wantonly turned against the colours they had sworn to defend, and the nation to which they owed allegiance. It was a terrible spectacle, and only to be justified by the enormity of the crime, which had, however, been provoked, throughout the whole war, by the allurements with which the Mexican generals basely tempted them. CHAPTER XXIV. Hostilities recommenced—Reconnoissances—Valley of Mexico—Defences around the City—Description of Chapultepec—Molino del Rey—Casa de Mata—Strength of the Mexican Lines—Storm of Molino del Rey—Capture of the Mexican Battery—Repulse of the Victors—The Battery retaken—Storm of Casa de MataTerrible Fire of the Mexicans—McIntosh's Brigade repulsed—Duncan's Battery —Surrender of Casa de Mata—Mexican Loss—American Loss. DURING the period of the truce, the head-quarters of General Scott were established at Tacubaya, a delightful village about two and a half miles distant from the city of Mexico, and within point-blank range of the guns of Chapultepec. There Worth's division and Harney's cavalry brigade were also quartered. The remainder of the army occupied the surrounding villages ; Pillow's division head-quarters being at Mixcoac, that of Twiggs at San Angel, and Quitman's at San Augustine. On the th of September, hostilities were recommenced on the part of the United States, by a reconnoissance of the enemy's interior line of defences immediately around the capital. These defences will be best elucidated by a brief description of the topography of the valley. The view of the valley of Mexico, as displayed from the eminence on which the Archbishop's Palace at Tacubaya is situated, exhibits the city of Mexico as built on a slight elevation, in the centre of a level plain, hemmed in for two hundred miles around by lofty mountains. The immense expanse of this lovely valley, which the transparency of the atmosphere renders distinctly visible, is chequered I. :ti:" lilt' C.'.-.: ^:. MAJ	GENEIt.kl, WINFIELD SCOTT Ott /it .`;' I:'	/jfq. Stlifalither Scale ..A...	B r .e latlervire. lei .	, _ B . SlaaaintandassersaaA ....• C. twoli.a. r.ruvo CTOOMIII	..... ..,.. •	•^^•^^^ ...IX iZaZi Ti. Malt L E	..á,..a/ Mar. F C•thaaral C. illeenetia •	--":- An arms	*	__a .-.. _,I_ 	-PI -	b ...		' 	' I	' *	-!•.	- - •-• _.., 	L _L a	,	....... Pri..B BeIr lr'	•	...,	,	',,. •';,.	'	\I . r AB. .. .-_	... •		,	•' ‘, a.	_r,	lb	- -	k t, k_N -, •A	•• , ..r. - Chapul top* c . - If& Grt., btl -	.. -i..	roe ;„	if	i. se:	/	I r . zr, :i ,,,	flf "•• . - .Z i•	-	sk: a JaiCh.: r'- h...einp.r Alan. . Enda flrgrntal N,i, in the vicinity of the city by numerous lakes, the borders of which are beautified by the residences of wealthy Mexicans, gleaming whitely from the midst of groves and gardens, while, interspersed throughout its whole extent to the base of the furthest mountains, are seen wide *etches of cultivated land, diversified by noble orchards and evergreen forests, and intersected by the silver threads of many fair rivers. The imposing haciendas of large landed proprietors, and villages and hamlets innumerable, are scattered all about, some boldly relieved by back-grounds of luxuriant foliage, and others partly hidden by intervening trees, or the swells and undulations of the plain. The central attraction of this beautiful valley, the city of Mexico, is approached from the plain on various sides by five great or main roads, terminating in eight causeways, elevated some six feet above the marshes and soft grounds by which the city is partially surrounded. These marshes render any approach to the city impracticable, except by the causeways, each of which cc presents a double roadway on the sides of an aqueduct of strong masonry and great height, resting on open arches and massive pillars, and flanked by ditches of unusual dimensions."* At the end of these causeways, Garitas are built over arches, through the gates of which all persons are compelled to pass before they can enter the city ; and at this time the gates were defended by a system of strong works, and the passage of the causeways protected by numerous batteries and breastworks for infantry. But the causeways of Belen and San Cosmd — the routes by which General Scott proposed to advance—had other and more formidable defences still. These were the works of Molino del Rey, Casa de Mata, and the castle of Chapultepec. Chapultepec, or gg the hill of the grasshopper," is famous in tradition as the favourite resort of the unfortunate Montezuma, and the princes of the old Aztec empire, whose wealth and semi- Scott's Official Reports, Noe. and . IPA 