 in the midst of England, and make an easy conquest of the only barrier left upon earth to secure the liberties of mankind. Eheu ! jam satis ! thought I. In this way did my poor uncle spend his time, to the utter ruin of a fine estate, which was surrendered to the management of that most pestilent of the human race, an overseer,—who would not at last be at the .trouble of furnishing the old gentleman with wood enough to keep him warm in his spacious edifice. The means he resorted to, to reprove the overseer, were not less characteristic and laughable than many of his singular notions. One very cold day he sent for feebly in the chimney place, in the centre of the room ink. My uncle received him with unusual courte: and ordered the servant to set a chair for Mr. Cornc by the fire, with a peculiar emphasis on the word. have sent for you, Mr. Corncob," said he, "to get y to witness my will. You see, sir," pointing at t same time to the fire, "you see, sir, how small a pi bability there is that I shall survive the present wins I am anxious to settle my affairs previous to my bei attacked by the pleurisy, and have therefore sent i you to aid me in doing so." This was a severe repro and the man having done as he was bid, retired wi an air the most sheepish imaginable. I fill up the picture, by stating that I married cousin, and inherited the estate in due course of tim but a mortgage swallowed it up as effectually as earthquake—and poor old Simon died of a broken hea when Regulus was knocked off at the sale of his nu tees property, at twenty dollars, to the man whom hated of all others, Christopher Corncob, Esquire. [For the Southern Literary Messenger.] Mn. Enrron.—The following sketch was given me by one of those mail stage story-tellers, who abound on our roads, and enliven the drowsy passengers by their narratives. It is founded on fact, and may not be unacceptable to such of your readers as are fond of delineation of human character in all its variety of phases. SALLY SINGLETON. A horseman passed us at full speed, whose wild and haggard look arrested the attention of my friend. In the name of all that is singular, said he, who can that be, and whither is he posting with such rapidity His garb seems of the last century, and his grizzled locks stream on the wind like those of some ancient bard. That man, replied I, is a lover, and is hurrying away to pay his devoirs to his mistress, who married another, and has been dead for many years. "Indeed, you surprise me," he rejoined. "He has, it is true, the 'lean look' of Shakespeare's lover; the 'blue eye and sunken ;' the 'unquestionable spirit,' and 'every thing about him demonstrates a careless desolation'—yet I should have imagined, that the snows of so many winters had extinguished all the fires of that frosty cautasus : but tell me who he is and what is his story." * "His name is Wilson ; and that of the lady whom he loved was Sally Singleton. I would that I had the graphic power of Scott to sketch a tale of so much interest. If Sir Walter has immortalized an old man, mounted on his white pony, and going in quest of the tombstones, how much is it to be regretted that the same master hand cannot be employed to perpetuate the memory of yonder eccentric being, whose love lives on after the lapse of twenty years, in spite of the marriage and death of his mistress—in spite of the evi morning, for the last twenty years, no matter what the state of the weather, (alike to him the hail, the rain, and the sunshine,) has he mounted his horse, and travelled a distance of ten miles, to see his beloved Sally Singleton. His custom is, to ride directly up to the window of her former apartment, and in a courteous manner to bow to his mistress, in token of his continued attachment. Having performed this act of gallantry, he waves with his hand a fond adieu, and immediately gallops back with a triumphant air, as if perfectly satisfied with having set his enemies at defiance. "The course of true love never did run smooth," and in this case, whether "misgrafted in espect of years," or "different in blood," or "standing on the choice of friends," is not exactly known; but the lady was wedded to another, and died soon after. Her lover would never believe in her marriage or her death. His mind, unhinged by the severity of his disappointment, seems to have retained nothing but the single image of her he loved, shut up in that apartment; and he resolved to brave every difficulty, to testify his unchanging devotion. Obstacles were purposely built across his path—the bridges were broken down—the idle boys would gather around him, and assail him in their cruel folly—guns, even, were fired at him,—all in vain! The elements could not quench the fervor of his love—obstacles were overleaped—he swam the rivers—the boys were disregarded—balls could not harm him. He held a charmed life ; like young Lochinvar, but dashed onward to his beloved window, and then, contented with this public attestation of his unalterable love, returned with a look of triumphant satisfaction to his joyless home. As a last effort to remove the veil from his eyes, a suit was instituted, in which he was made a party, and proof of the lady's marriage and death was my cost. My husband was once as tender and affectionate as I could wish, but, poor man, he is now totally changed ; I suppose it is owing to his having the dyspepsia. He is so peevish and fretful, I hardly dare speak to him; and it is impossible to keep pace with the endless variety of his ailments. If happen to make a mistake, and inquire after the wrong pain, he flies into a violent and reproaches me for a want of sympathy in is sufferings. It was but yesterday I happened to y, "my dear, how is the pain in your back ?" (I had forgotten it was his side.) This was enough; he cursed matrimony, and swore it was the vilest of all institutions; that a wife was nothing more than a legalized tormentor; that if he were single, he would not marry any woman under the sun—no, not if she had a bulse of diamonds torn from a Begum's ear, and much more in the same strain ; and at last cooling down, he asked me if I did not remember that his last pain was a pain in the side ; and then entered into such a history of hismalady, that I sorely regretted I had opened my lips upon the subject. What right have we to worry other people thus with our maladies ? I never tell mine to any but the doctor, because I know that nobody else listens, and" doubt very much whether he does half his time. If any one gives my husband the common salutation of, how d'ye do ? oh dear, he begins at the beginning of his disease, [like an old gentleman of my acquaintance, who always begins at the Revolution,) and traces it down through all its variations for the last' five years—tells all the remedies he has used, and their effects, until you may see a half suppressed smile lurking about the lips of the interrogator, which increases at length to so broad a grin, that I am in agony for the consequences. He has tried in turn every remedy of every quack upon earth, and has gone so far three days he protests that he is worse, much worse, and vents his spleen upon the physic, the inventor, and upon me for permitting him to use such vile trash. Sometimes he comes to me, and tells me exultingly that he has at last found out the panacea—the grand ca. tholicon for all his sufferings. "My dear B—," he will say, "let me explain to you the philosophy of this matter. When food is taken into the human stomach, if it cannot undergo a proper digestion, it goes through the putrefactive process; just such a process as would take place in animal or other substances, if exposed to the action of heat and moisture in the open air : a quantity of carbonic acid gas is disengaged, and this gas filling the stomach, acts by mechanical pressure, and thus produces the pain I feel. Now I have discovered that in consequence of my habit of eating fast, my food is not sufficiently triturated, and of course the gastric juice [heaven help me !] cannot act upon it ; and I am exactly in the situation of the sheep or any other ruminating animal, who swallows the herbage whole, and then regurgitates, that it may undergo a bettei mastication. Well, what then is the remedy ? I will tell you ; I will make John pound my food in a mortar, which will supply the necessary trituration and thus I shall be a well man." He sent off immediately to a druggist and purchased a nice little wedgewood mortar, and there stood John, every day, behind his chair, pounding his meat, bread and vegetables, into a revolting mass, until my poor ears were well nigh deafened with the shrill din of the pestle against the sides of the mortar. Was ever woman so beset? At the end of a week, finding himself no better, he threw the mortar, pestle and all, at John's head, and would certainly have pounded him to death, but for a fortunate dodge, which permitted the mortar to come in contact with my china press, where it made sad havoc among my most valuable ware. He was very glad, he said, because I had no business to let the press stand there. It was on the tip of my tongue to say, "bray lief. This somewhat mollified him, and the next day he came to me and apologized for what he had done, and promised to repair the damage by making me a handsome present ; but this calm was of short duration, for he soon relapsed into gloom—and as he sat by the fire, smoking his pipe, he all at once declared that it must have been the cursed tobacco which had poisoned his existence ; that during the combustion of the tobacco an oil was disengaged, which, mixing with the saliva, was taken up by absorption into his lungs, and had eaten them to a honey-comb. John was immedi ately called : "Here," said he, "John take this pipe, and d'ye hear, sir, hide it—hide it where I never can find it again." John accordingly took the pipe, but struggled in vain to choke his laughter. Before he could escape from the room, he burst out into such a loud, distinct, irrepressible ha! ha! that there was no mistaking the thing, and he was soundly caned for his involuntary breach of decorum. About three days after this, in the evening after tea, my husband's favorite time for smoking, I observed him very restless, indeed; he rose, walked about the room, sat down, whistled, hummed a tune, and rose again. At last he began to rummage about the wainscot and mantle-piece, and behind the book-case, and suddenly turning round he called John in a softened voice ; "John, my good fellow, where is my pipe ? I must have left it in the study ; do go and look for it." John hesitated and ed. "What the devil is the fellow laughing at? one, sir, and bring my pipe immediately." John speedily vanished. Turning to me, "you see," said my husband, "my unhappy condition ; my very servants turn me into ridicule, and you do not reprove them for it." I could not reply, but felt anxious to point out to him that he could never hope to be well, because he would not adhere for a space of time sufficiently long to any plan whatever. His scheme now is to eat nothing but cold bread. It must be set away in a pure wholesome. Can you forbear smiling, my friend'? Now I know there is nothing of literature in all this, unless the chemical disquisitions of my wretched husband may be so considered ; but nevertheless I flatter myself you will give me a place in your Messenger, because many a victim of dyspepsia may look into this mirror, and see himself.	BZLINDA. it ; but I cannot forbear contesting the truth of this writer's assertions, and declaring that he seems to me to be a Lilliputian about the body of a Gulliver. It has been said of Demosthenes, "that he has been deservedly styled the prince of orators. His orations are strongly animated, and full of the impetuosity and ardor of public spirit. His composition is not distinguished by ornament and splendor. Negligent of the lesser graces, he seems to have aimed at the sublime, which lies in sentiment. His action and pronunciation are said to be uncommonly vehement and ardent. The Archbishop of Cambray gives him the preference to Cicero; against whom he makes the objection of too much ornament. According, therefore to this author, if William Pinkney was not an orator, it follows that Demosthenes was none; because their style of eloquence seems to have been alike in almost every particular, except that Pinkney aimed at ornament, of which Demosthenes had none and Cicero too much. If speeches, characterized by stupendous strength, and turbulent declamation, and convincing argument, are neither "persuasive, nor dignified, nor natural," then was not Demosthenes persuasive, nor dignified, nor natural, and of course he was no orator according to this definition. If ornament be a fault in Mr. Pinkney, he had it in common with Cicero; but perhaps the author may say that Cicero attained what Pinkney only aimed at. Hear him then again on the subject of ornament, so passionately loved by Mr. Pinkney. "Bring him in contact with a truly poetical mind, and his argument resembles a battery of colored fire-works, giving out incessant brightness and reverberation." It would seem then that ornament is not a common trait * of his eloquence, but a glitter which is effected by :at trition against poetical minds. It is then that he draws * upon the inexhaustible stores of beauty laid up in his mind, gathered from the writings of Shakspeare and others, and retained by the force of a powerful memory He has no fancy of his own, but uses A‘e fancy * and dry., alike impetuous, vehement, stupendous and convincing with him, and superadding a relish for the beauties of poetry ; not aiming at any ornament of his own, but contented with what suggested itself in illustration of his argument from the pen of others. Then how is he feeble in ornament ? But again ; if there be nothing of dignity or nature in Pinkney's reasoning, how is it discovered that his mind is "adamant clamped with iron," (a poor conception, and suiting the ideas of a blacksmith better than a belles-lettres scholar—for the iron adds nothing to our thoughts of the strength of adamant ;) that it is "a collossal pile of granite, over which the thunders of heaven might roll," &c., &c. It is useless to quote the rest of the unmeaning fustian of the sentence. After all this avowal of stupendous strength of argument, we are told in a subsequent paragraph, that say what we will of Mr. Pinkney's argument, he the author, never saw him yet---no never, pursue his argument steadily for ten minutes at a time. Then how can it be so overwhelming and convincing Nothing lessens so much the force of argument as a perpetual aberration from the subject. Again "God never meant him for an orator, he has no property of mind or body," &c., &c. Not to say any thing of the presumption and impiety of determining for God, I would ask what are the bodily properties of an orator? This writer has not condescended to define them, although he dwells at large upon such as he thinks cast discredit upon Mr. Pinkney. It is scarcely necessary to observe that Demosthenes was ungraceful in figure and action; and that not only orators, but very wise and learned men have been repulsive in their persons, their features, and their manners also. Though Caesar and Cicero were exempt from defect in this respect, as far as I remember, Demosthenes stuttered—Socrates was bald and flat nosed—Antony a rough soldier—Lord Chatham's eloquence was forcible, but uniform and ungraceful—Fox was a fop of Bond street, and wore high-heeled morocco shoes. Mr. Pinkney therefore I countenance as a fashionable man. The facetious Peter Pinder has said, that but I never heard that oratory did. In the next breath we hear that "Mr. Pinkney has a continual appearance of natural superciliousness and affected courtesy." Continual—and yet afterwards, his manner is exceedingly arrogant and unpropitiating ; and his deportment has been already described as "brutal, arrogant, full of sound and fury, accompanied by the rude and violent gestures of a vulgar-fellow." One moment he is a giant, not only metaphorically, but in sober truth, if we may judge from his stentorian lungs, which have caused the author's whole system to jar—and from those violent gesticulations, which indicate uncommon personal strength; the next, he turns out to be only five feet ten, and a petit maitre, and affectedly courtly and conciliatory; and yet "nothing could make a gentleman of him ; he can neither look, act, speak, sit, nor talk like one." Notwithstanding all this scurrility and abuse of Mr. Pinkney's person, the author is not yet exhausted, but lavishes more upon his intellect. "The physical powers of Mr. Pinkney," he says, "are to my notion, strictly correspondent with his intellectual ones, both are solid, strong and substantial, but without grace, dignity or loftiness." Loftiness ! the same man who has such "prodigious elevation and amplitude of mind," "and both have a dash of fat English dandyism." I confess myself wholly at a loss to comprehend what the fat dandyism of the intellectual ppwer is. A man's mind might, by a forced metaphor, be said to be dandyish, perhaps ; but a fat mind is a solecism in words wholly inadmissible, I think. "His style of eloquence," it is added, "is a most disagreeable and unnatural compound of the worst faults of the worst speakers." "He is said to resemble Lord Erskine ney does resemble that of Lord Erskine ; his reasoning is about as forcible." If the term style here be the-manner of speaking appropriate to particular characters, have shown that the censure, is equally applicable to Demosthenes, the prince of orators, who, in addition to his vehemence, was so ungraceful in his motions, that it was necessary for him to practice with a naked sword hanging over	shoulder; and therefore to compare Demosthenes to Lord Erskine is a libel on Lord Erskine, himself a libel on his country, as a speaker and argalu Shakspeare says, Demosthenes is inferior to English orators. If, again, the word style means the manner of writing with regard to language, these sentences would involve a contradiction, and Mr. Pinkney is alike and unlike Lord Erskine at the same time ! Yet why do I talk of Demosthenes In the following sentences the author admits that Mr. P. copied too closely after Cicero and Demosthenes, "He desired to be eloquent; he thought of Demosthenes and Cicero, and his heart swelled with ambition." He remembered not that he was to be a lawyer, and that Demosthenes and Cicero were declaimers. He who should look to move a body of Americans in a court of justice by the best thundering of Demosthenes, would only make himself ridiculous." Very true; and this may certainly prove that Mr. Pinkney might have been a greater lawyer, by. bending the whole force of his mind to that one pursuit ; but it has nothing to do with the premises. The ground is here changed ; this is not the point to be proved—not the quod erat demonstrandum. The point to be proved is not the propriety of displaying eloquence before a jury, but that William Pinkney was never meant by God for an orator; that he has no property of mind or body to make one. This is assuredly the scope of the extracts. Had Mr. P. not aimed at ornament, his ashes might have passed undisturbed by the author, who allows that he was decidedly the greatest lawyer in America, but is very angry that he was not the greatest in the world. In quence in America." Why, what a stupid, blind, misjudging race we must be, to think of choosing a man for our high-priest of eloquence, whom God never meant for an orator, and who had no property, not one, of mind or body, for his business—and never to awaken from our folly until this writer tore the urim and thummim from his breast. "The giant," he says, "is gone down like a giant to the household of death," and there should at least have escaped the imputation of baseness which deserved shooting. How giants die, I pretend not to know; but imagine such giants die pretty much like other people ; and it seems to me.per y ridiculous to talk of a man's dying like a giant. At that awful hour, the littleness of the greatest genius is a subject of melancholy reflection. I will only add that I know nothing of this writer. If his object was to guard us against the mischievous effects of a false taste in eloquence, he cannot be angry with me for wishing to guard against the equally bad effects of a false taste in criticism. Ma. Enrroa.—I am an odd old fellow, and fond of etymology, and frequently amuse myself with tracing to their roots, words in familiar use. Having been confoundedly puzzled of late by the term caucus, which Is in every body's mouth, and not being able to satisfy myself as to its origin, I have determined to have recourse to you, and will be infinitely obliged to you or any of your readers for a solution of the difficulty. If it be true as D'Israeli says, that the inventor of a new Word cannot be secure of its adoption by the public, for he must lie in the grave before he can enter the dictionary—the man who made the doteissA. w 'MVet be still living, though at a very advancea age. X -vee't suppose, however, that D'Israeli is rtistskerta otvA the inventor has been dead a long time, and lived to see the general adoption of his word, notwithstanding it has as yet no place in any dictionary that I have seen. Supposing it to be an English word, I consulted Walker, and was mortified to find that he took no notice of it. I then made sundry combinations of other terms, but could light upon none that seemed at all plausible, except the word calk us, which, united into caucus, may produce a kind of onomatopoeia, descriptive of the assemblage in question ; for to calk, is, according to the above mentioned lexicographer, "to stop the leak of a vessel," and inasmuch as a caucus is urged by the admirers of Mr. Van Buren, to be the means of stopping all leaks in our political vessel, there seems to be some show of reason in this derivation. Upon further reflection, however, I concluded that the word must be Greek, and having recourse to Schrevelius, found the paronymous term kakos, malus. This I presently rejected, though apparently descriptive of the pernicious tendency of caucus, because the institutors of that pestilent oligarchy would hardly have selected so barefaced an epitheton, such a cacophony, if I may so speak. On further search, upon meeting with kaukis, I was so much delighted with the near resemblance of sound, as to jump up and cry out "eureka ;" but moderated my rapture on discovering that "genus ca]ceamenti," the explanatory terms in Latin, could not be tortured to any manner of application, unless indeed it was intended to indicate that the members of a caucus would be willing to stand in the people's shoes, upon the occasion of electing a president of the United States ; or unless we observe further the aliter baukos, jucundus, for it is literally a very pleasant and right merry way of getting rid of the difficulty of a choice by the people. So far the Greek. As to the Latin, I have consulted every dictionary in my possession, from Ainsworth and Young, up to old Thoma Thomasius, printed coven-trim Septimo Idus, Februarii, , and can find nothing resembling our caucus, but the three-headed robber stolen, if not the cattle, at least the property of the American Hercules, and will keep it unless he rise in his might, and crushing the political thief resume his original rights. Now, Mr. Editor, I am disposed to rest here ; though not quite so well satisfied as Jonathan Oldbuck was about the locality of Agricola's camp, from those mysterious initials which the mischievous Edie Ochiltree so wickedly interpreted to mean "Ailic Davy's lang ladle," and not "Agricola dicavit libens lubens," as Monkbarns would have it ;—but do observe, sir, the singular coincidences between cacus and caucus ; the one a three-headed rogue—the other a sort of political Cerberus; the first slily taking away the cattle of another—the second insidiously cajoling the people of their rights; the former hiding them in a cave, where they were discovered by their bellowing—the latter betrayed by a bellowing from Maine to Georgia ; and finally cacus demolished by Hercules, and caucus easily demolished by the Herculean force of public sentiment. I acknowledge, however, that I am not entirely satisfied, notwithstanding this "confirmation strong," and hope you will speedily relieve the perplexity of Your most obedient servant. P. . A friend facetiously suggests that caucus is nothing more than a corruption,—Caucus, quasi corkus; That is, shut close the doors that nobody may hear us. I now expressed a wish to be shaved and trimmed, al was immediately disrobed, and ushered to a high-Nat chair, where my head was roughly thrown back, u chin tucked, and the operation of shaving performed : the "twinkling of an ejaculation." It did not tal long to cut my hair and strangle me with cologi water; but what was my surprise, when they we done with me, to find the whole of my occiput as ba as the palm of my hand, and nothing left upon u head but a few straggling locks at the side, time havii already stripped naked my forehead. I was sad vexed, but what could I say ? I had voluntarily p myself in their power, and was devoutly glad when got into the street, that I had escaped alive from th hands. Well, I had now paid four-and-sixpence ; had lost all my hair; my face had been scratched brooms and lacerated by a razor, and I had learned exchange that barbers were different folks now-a-da: from what they used to be, and that men were brush down like horses—rather a bad speculation! I not been in this world, it is true, "ever since Ku Pepin was a little boy," but I was pretty old, and hi never been treated so unceremoniously in my life. had imagined when I entered the house, that I w going into just such a shop as my old friend Kipp used to keep, who received me with the profoundest bows, and shaved me with a solemnity of manner th suited my temper exactly. No tawdry ornaments hum upon the walls; no mirrors flashed wheresoever yc turned ; no newspapers lay scattered around ; no H len. Jewetts or other engravings caught your eye. walls were mute as "Tam's Halls"—a piece of broke looking-glass stood upon the table, and an old shavin can, encrusted with the smoke of a thousand fires, a disconsolately in the chimney ; but, nevertheless, the modern fellows cannot shave as Kippur "used to could There is too much hurry in every thing now-a-day It is true shaving must be done by steam—the wat ought to to what I have to tell of the changes in this world. My first trip was to be made in a steamboat which was to start ( jiy perhaps would be a better word) at ten o'clock at night. I had never been in one, having been of the same opinion with old What's-his-name, who never could be induced to go on board, not even when the boat was lying at the wharf without a particle of fire—when urged to go, and told that there was no earthly danger, he always shook his head doubtingly, and declared "there was no knowing what accidents might happen." However, go I must; my business required despatch, and there was no mode of travelling so expeditious. Accordingly, I went on board, and passing the fire-room, where they were just firing up, I stopped with unfeigned horror, and asked myself, if indeed I was prepared to die ! I almost fancied myself at the entrance of the infernal regions, and the firemen, all begrimed and black and covered with sweat, seemed like the imps of the devil, tossing the damned spirits into the flames. I shuddered and turned away, inwardly vowing if heaven would be graciously pleased to spare me this time, I would never again voluntarily put myself in the way of being burnt to death. I proceeded to the cabin, which I found, as yet, unoccupied, and you may be certain if the barber's shop had surprised me, my amazement was now complete, at finding myself in the most splendid apartment I had ever beheld. I shalt not attempt any description, because I have no doubt, Mr. Editor, you have seen many a one; all I shall say is, that having examined every thing with as much wonder as did Polyglott when "he din-need wi' a lord," I laid myself down in a berth, and could not satisfy myself of my personal identity, any more than could he who once went to see some great man, and was treated with so much distinction, that when he retired to bed, he lay some time revolving all that had passed, and the scene around him, and exclaimed, "can this be me." Putting his foot out of bed, scalped me, I became insured that it was indeed, yor humble servant, and was trying to compose myse when I heard a cry of "the stageis come," and in few moments in walked the captain and seated hima@ at his writing-table, and immediately afterwards for passengers, at least, rushed into the cabin, all talkiki in the loudest key, and dressed in every variety of mom, and seeming to strive with one another who should se, first to the captain to pay his money. What does tg, mean '? thought I ; wherefore such hurry' "Why need they be so forward with death, who calls not oil them ?" as Falstaff says. I soon found out the cause; they were securing their berths, and as they passed mine, they severally peeped into it; at length, one prying more earnestly than the others, exclaimed, "halloo, my hearty, you are in the wrong box ; you must come out." I made no reply, and he repeated his command to me to turn out—still I said nothing, and he turned to the captain : "I say, captain, here's a Jackson man in my berth." "Yes," said I, feeling my dander rise, as honest Jack Downing says, "and I shall assume the responsibility of staying in it." Alas ! I reckoned without my host, for the captain came up and desired me to evacuate the premises. "Why," said I, "captain, I thought possession was eleven points of law"' "None of your nonsense, sir," returned he, and took hold of my arm. Seeing how matters stood, I fixed myself Dentatus-like, with my back to the side of the boat, and seizing my hickory stick, defended mysel manfully, but numbers prevailed over valor, and I wa at last ignominiously dragged forth, like Smith fro! Chickahominy Swamp, to the no small amusement the company, some of whom hurraed for old baldpal Here was a pretty commencement of my journey ! the end, I was compelled to sleep upon a table, thi o' that ! and imagine my horror when I found myt stretched out like a corpse, with a sheet over me ! ! my previous fears of being scalded to death rus upon my mind, and I made sure that this was inc some vast giant struggling to be free ; the snoring and snorting around me ; the intense heat, produced by the juxta-position of so many human bodies, effectually nished sleep from my eyelids ; I was "in a state of dissolution and thaw," and wished myself any where else, even in "the Domdaniel caves under the roots of Ocean," if there were such a place, so that I could escape my present thraldom. How often have I wondered, said I to myself, that people could be so foolhardy as to live at the foot of Mount iEtna or Vesuvius, where they are liable to be overwhelmed in a moment by burning lava ; and here am I, lying near the crater of a volcano, without the hope of escape if there should be an eruption! ! Overwhelmed by the oppressive weight of my thoughts, I sunk, from absolute exhaustion, about day-break, into a doze, from which I was almost immediately aroused by a bell, which I mistook for the last wimp, and springing up perceived that it announced our arrival at the place of destination, and I was forced to huddle on my clothes as fast as possible. Such a scene of confusion and hurry as now presented itself, baffles my poor powers of description.' Passengers, porters, trunks, wheel-barrows, hackmen, every d)! and every thing, in one moving mass upon the wharf, so completely confounded the few brains I had, that I stood like a fool, while "hack, sir ?" was bawled in one ear, "hack, sir?" in another—"omnibus, sir? do you go in the omnibus?" One pulled me by the right, another by the left, until my limbs were almost dislocated. Ait last, remembering a little of my Latin, I concluded it must be right to go with all, and I cried out "omnibus!" "Your baggage, sir, where is it ?" "God only knows, my friend," said I. "Is this it, sir ?" "Yes, yes." Into the omnibus they shoved me, with such despatch, that had I been the "stout gentleman" himself, I am sure none could have seen even the "broad disk of my pantaloons." It was the first time in my life that I had ever travelled in a carriage without mei= without a door, but in what ianzuaze is more than I pretend to know. Perhaps it may be the Gsramna lanzuaze, but none but the author of the Doctor can tell that. If you should be acquainted with the tongue, Mr. Editor, just drop me a hint in your next number, and I shall be much obliged to you. Well, praised be heaven, I had escaped the death of a hog, and felt somewhat revived by the morning air, Away we whirled with great rapidity to the rail-road depot, where the cars were ready to receive us. WE were told that from some irrezularity, I never knew what, we were to be drawn for some miles by horses, and I blessed my stars at the occurrence, as I had been anticipating, with some dread, that wonderful velocity of the engines of which I had heard and read so much; but short-lived indeed was my joy, as it began to be matter of interesting speculation whether the cars meeting us, might not, peradventure, be driven by steam. We had not proceeded far, before our apprehensions were realized. Just as we turned an abrupt curvature in the road, there came the engine roaring and snorting upon us ! ! Mr. Editor, I have been pursued in my time by a mad bull; I have been upon the point of being tossed upon his horns; I have been in imminent peril of being run over by squadrons of wild horses, which had taken the stampado ; I have seen perils by sea and perils by land, but never had I felt such alarm, such destitution of all hope of escape, as now. Our driver sprang from his seat, and had just time to unhitch his horses, but what were we to do ? One man jumped out and broke his leg, the rest of us kept our seats. I could not leave mine—I was transfixed with horror—my eyes were starting from my head, and my mouth wide open. Breathless, we awaited tile shock, and soon it came like a thunder-crank. What happened to others cannot tell. All remember distinctly is, that the concussion was so trrtnendoum, that it brought my two remaining teeth so riulently together, that they weve both knocked out; r I did not die of fright— my hair, if I had any, lave turned gray ; but thanks to the barber, I had I was taken up more dead than alive, and no-could induce me to hazard my life again. I ied to the devil, all cars, steamboats, rail roads, rojectors and inventors, solemnly vowing never k a hurry again as long as I lived, but to rememe old maxim, featina Gents—make haste slowly. business I abandoned in despair,—bought the horse I could procure—sold my trunk, and got Df saddle-bags, and resolved to jog slowly and Domeward. After a fatiguing journey, I reached n house, where nobody knew me. When I r wife who I was and what had occurred to me, cl it was a judgment upon me for being such a to cut my hair in that fashion. She will never o me now when I attempt to repeat the particumy excursion, and that is the reason I have con to trouble you with my history. If it should in you, and serve as a warning to my country.ot to be in such a confounded hurry in doing thing, I shall be repaid for my trouble. The world seems to me to be in a sort of neck-or; state ; all the sobriety, frugality and simplicity forefathers seems to be forgotten, and the only is, to grow rich suddenly, and time and space e annihilated in the pursuit. At a very numerous meeting of crows in the N Neck, assembled not for the purpose of oppol election of General Andrew Jackson or John Adams, to the presidency, but to take into consit the state of the crows, the following petition Legislature was vociferously adopted. CORVUS CARNIVOROUS, in the CROWOVER CORNHILL, Scratchetary. lb the Honorable Speakers and Members of the Assembly of Virginia : The petition of the crows of the Northern humbly complaining, sheweth unto your honc your petitioners view with feelings of the alarm, the various enactments of the legislature them ; they could have borne, without speaki injuries heretofore inflicted, because they we partial nature, and did not seem to contempt total eradication of their species, but now that ti from a birdseje view of your journal, that the be waged against them is one of entire extermi they cannot forbear to cry out and respectful)) your honors what they have done, more that other animals, to call down a vengeance so cri unrelenting. Not only are we exposed to deE thousand shapes from poisonous preparations I lainous gunpowder, but recently with a refine! malignity disgraceful to a christian people, gr corn have been strung with horse hair, and yc fortunate petitioners, while attempting to swalloi affronts have been subjected to phthisical tortur character wholly indescribable. Not satisfies punishments so entirely disproportioned to our of your honors have sanctioned by law, that abo abomination of scalping, against which, when pr rudely violated, and our lovely little ones mercilessly torn from us in spite of their cawing, while we ourselves are assailed on every side by the engines of death, but our miserable bodies must be savagely mangled, and our scalps exhibited to your magistracy contemptuously strung upon strings rattling in horrible aridity ! ! To say nothing of the demoralizing effects of such exhibitions, and the impolicy of destroying so useful a race as ourselves, for proof of which we beg leave to refer your honors to Wilson's Ornithology ; permit us to ask why are we singled out as the objects of your vengeance, when nothing is said of the rat or squirrel, the first more destructive than ourselves, and the last so much so as to have given birth to that most sarcastic observation of the Hon. John Randolph of Roanoke, viz. "that the Northern Neck resembles the outside row of a corn-field, where the squirrels had already commenced their nib bling ;" a language so prophetical and seemingly so verified by recent events, that we, sagacious as we are known to be, are astonished at his sagacity. On this subject we content ourselves with the simple observa tion of verbum sap. which is better Latin, we venture to say, than "ignca fatuce." Thanks to the fabulists, who have taught us all languages, and here we cannot refrain from remarking that certain orators appear to have been "at a great feast of the languages," but to have come away without even "the scraps." That more substantial participation in "the flesh pots" may be hereafter exhibited, we pretend not to know anything about, and hasten to call your attention to other matters, more relevant to our present petition. No longer ago than at the last session of your Assembly, the hog, at the bare mention of the destructiveness of which the Virginia farmer ought to tremble, was treated with a courtesy which, when contrasted with the cruelty evinced to us, is truly astonishing. He was absolutely presented with the freedom of the town of Lewisburg, not in a golden box, but upon parch not be unknown to your honors that the hog is, beyond all contradiction, the most destructive to grain of all animals upon earth. In a single night he will ravage an entire field, and notwithstanding the authority to do so, derived from your honorable body, his bloody laurels often attest the sanguinary combat he has waged in defence of his privileges. To statesmen so experienced as yourselves, it would be presumption in us to call your most serious attention to the absurdity of conferring such honors upon an animal so voracious and so regardless of the true wealth of nations. In the single article of fencing, one-third of the labor annually employed in this state might be dispensed with if this licensed freebooter, this swinish corsair, were subjected to imprisonment. It is true we may be reproached with being frequently seen perched upon his back, and we sincerely wish that we could ride into power upon his shoulders, as many of the race of man have done upon the shoulders of their fellows ; but alas! like the innocent apple upon the head of the son of Tell, the deadly shaft pierces us through, while the hog moves on unharmed, the pride and favorite of republicans. It is far from the wish of your petitioners to say one word that has reference to political matters. It is certainly our interest to please both sides—we have made gegeoponicks" rather than politics our study, and notwithstanding we possess in an eminent degree that craft which is the distinguishing trait of the profound politician, the necessity of procuring subsistence has driven us rather to the contemplation of corn-hills than codes. Nevertheless we find ourselves constrained to say that we are somewhat in the predicament of Glen. Jackson. His deeds have been long known, commented upon, triumphantly vindicated, and yet there are some who seem to have been in a sort of political lethargy, and to have suddenly awakened to a keen perception of his atrocities. The flood long pent up in their bosoms hath at length found a vent, and a torrent of vituperation has poured down upon his head, so sweeping and so overwhelming that no v\acra ot wok city can be found for the hero of New Orleans, save the strong walls of your penitentiary. Now, and yet, with this knowledge on your part, vengeance hath slept until lately ; the plea of necessity has been our justification—we have acted, as Mr. Adams says, under a higher sanction than human laws, and yet nothing short of an ignominious end will satisfy the enemies of our advancement. Nor are we at a loss to find a parallel in our case to that of Mr. Adams, if that eminent scholar will permit us to compare the humble Mantua with lofty Rome. Like him, we fondly flattered ourselves that our nests, carefully cemented by the aid of Clay, were too securely reared toward the skies to be reached by our opponents. We did not dream that explorations would produce so much mischief; we hoped that in these observatories we might securely sit, and that any attempt to disturb us would be eau ably stupid," when lo the auri sacra fames, (more Latin, anrplease your worships,) the cursed love of treasury pap, has suddenly overturned all our hopes and left us a prey to despair. We forbear to trespass longer upon your valuable time, although this subject is capable of great amplification, and conclude with an earnest prayer that your honors will reject, promptly and with merited scorn, every big which has for its object the further wounding of your petitioners, and if this humble boon be too much to grant, we implore that you will in mercy allow us at least the writ of habeas corpus, and ordain that our mangled crowns shall be no longer, with Indian ferocity, exhibited to your magistracy, an indecent spectacle and barbarian trophy, but that each victim, in propria persona, shall be produced, and your Poetry's unnatural ; no man ever talked in poetry %apt a adle on boxin' day, or Warren's blackin', or Rowland's ail, or me o' them low fellows. Never you let yourself down to ealk etry, my boy.— Weller, senior. MR. EDITOR :--Although named after the wisest an that ever lived, I am afraid that you will think e very foolish to be troubling you with my complaints; A seeing that my great namesake did not always the ing that was right, and moreover, that you did not mime my former communication, but put it down in ack and white, I am tempted again to address you. have given up travelling as I told you, but somehow other, this world is so strangely constituted, that do i we will, there must be something to perplex and moy us, and how to get rid of my present grievance cannot divine. It is therefore that I fly to you in my stress, hoping that your superior wisdom may sugtat some way of relief. Almost all your contributors, I observe, stick up a nd of sign-board at the top of their writings, and you e I have followed their example ; I think it a good tstom. It answers a useful purpose, because your aders may be considered as a sort of travellers, who Ee to know which way they are going. Whether where to stop for "cakes and, beer," or more solid fare. Let nobody stop with me, who cannot be satisfied with the humblest cheer. When I tell you, Mr. Editor, that I am like the men who never made but one rhyme in his life, and that was "Thumpin and Dumpling," missing it ;hen too, you may well wonder that poetry should be my theme; but I have been so much vexed and worried by poets, that I am almost as mad as Hogarth's "enraged musician ;" and, if I may judge from the manner in which they have beset you, I have no doubt, if you could come out openly, you would wish the whole fraternity at the bottom of the sea ; and I have a shrewd notion thatyou think with my Lord Byron, that if they have drunk of the true Castalian, "it has a villainous twang." I have somewhere read of an old gentleman, who estimated his books according to their ponderousness. The folios were the best because they gave him the soundest naps; and, for my part, I never read but for the purpose of going to sleep ; for positiCleyil can lArIllaci understand half of it. The words are so 	trans	for the sake of the rhyme, and the thoughts are so far-fetched, that it fatigues me to death to find out what the writer means. Blank verse especially, is to me, more incomprehensible than the demonstration we used to call at school—Hot Hell—and shall I confess it Yes, and a thousand others would do the same, if they were as candid as I am. I never could get through the divine Milton in my life. As old Tom Main Randolph once said, of his opponent in debate, "I cannot follow the gentleman; he is too erratic—he shakes hands with the comets." I never attempt to read Paradise Lost, without being convinced of my fags state, when I awake, and find myself on the floor. Is there any conceivable subject, much less the devil and his imps, upon which human attention can be kept awake through twelve tedious books? If I could read by steam, I should feel as if I were dragging olow twelve burthen cars. I have selected *at must I endure upon the tempest-tost ocean of todern poetry By-the-by, blank verse ! What is Le meaning of the word blank ? Like the fellow who ad been writing prose all his life, without knowing it, are have I been reading blank verse all my life, with-at once inquiring into its meaning. I suppose I was stisfied from not comprehending it, that it was all a lank; but let us see what the dictionary says, for peois now-a-days, I believe, are fed upon the dictionary. Rank—white, unwritten, confused, without rhyme ; uly, an excellent definition ! It is confused indeed, Miltonls verse is, to use his own words, "con/lesion rorse confounded." Can any sober man like you or I, Ir. Editor, read his account of Hell and the Devil, in and Death, Old Night and Chaos, without feeling is head a perfect chaos? What monstrous concepons ! What inconceivable descriptions! What untterable horrors ! Was the man mad No wonder a was blind ; for the bare imagination of such i is s he describes was enough to make any body b d. liked, it seems to me to be absolutely necessary to be Lind, or at least to shut one's eyes, to imagine such a Lultitude of devils—more I dare swear than "vast hell in hold." Just shut your eyes for a moment, and nerve the variety of objects you will see of all shapes ad sizes. It must have been in this way that his lamination "bodied forth the forms of things unknown." ome of his descriptions are really so ludicrous that one wnot forbear laughing outright ; I am sure I cannot. Cr instance, Sin, in giving an account of her birth, lye, that all at once Satan had the head-ache, and his sad threw forth flames thick and fast, till the left side fit opened, and out shejumped—a goddess armed ; .hat followed then, is too horrible for decent people to ilk about. Again, when Moloch proposes to attack Le Alla with "infernal thunder, and for I I shoot	fire and horror," among the angels, who tn. refrain from smiling at this new kind of ammuni be got and how used, I leave for devils to explain ; enough of this nonsense. I did not set down to critic Milton.---Heaven help me ! No, I am too conscious the Longo interval() between him and a thumping I dumplin sort of fellow like myself; but I must tl leave to say, that not one in a thousand of comn folks, mind I say of common folks, who affect to mightily pleased with Paradise Lost, can expound following quotation : Can there be any pleasure in reading what requ: so much labour to understand '? No, sir, it was no criticise, but to beseech you to urge people, who c not write poetry, to let it alone, and do as I did. once took it into my head, that I could draw, and always making the most uncouth things in the wo but still could not be convinced of my incapacity I way, until one day as I was sketching a head of Marquis La Fayette, a friend peeped over my shoo] and asked me, if that was a water jug I was draw A water jug! ! The head of La Fayette mistaken a water jug! ! I Mortified to death, I threw down pencil, and secretly vowed that I was done with I business forever. Just so entreat those who never i ped their "jugs into the real Hippocrene," to break ti at once, and pursue some more profitable calling. know well that Dean Swift, or somebody, has s that every one must have a poetical purging at et period of, life ; but he never intended that any should bring on a diarrhoea of poetry. I have, sir my neighborhood, a run mad poet ; and I ask yot recommend what can be done to restore the man to Senses. If Chalmers can cure a man of drunken surely Toil might compound a dose which would worse than ever. Ought he not to be seat to the lunatic hospital ? For you know that a poet has himself said, What am I doing Plague on the fellow, he has absolutely infected me with his propensities—but let me describe him. He goes about with a sesquipedalian volume of poems, six inches thick, in a large side pocket ; and there is no subject which can be introduced into conversation, that he is not immediately ready to draw out his heavy artillery and fire away upon you. He has made an acrostic upon every man, woman, and child in the county; and I'll tell you how he does it; he,	it is the simplest thing in the world. He wrtes down the initials and then without any manner of reference to the particular individual to be described, he writes whatever enters his head, and is as well satisfied with his productions, as if they were the finest portraits. I could cut out as good verse with a broad-axe. FIe is besides, a perfect poetical Jackdaw, and is so tricked out in other people's feathers, that you dare not open your mouth, but he is ready for you with quotations innumerable. He beats Dr. Pangloss hollow. This is sufficiently annoying, but nothing to the inflictions of his own rhymes. Not a cat nor a dog can die, but he writes an epitaph. Marriage with us is absolutely discouraged—because the young people are afraid otos epithalamium. It is dangerous to admit him into your house, for he goes away and describes every mother's son of you. He has caused some of my most valuable acquamtances to emigrate to the western country. In short he keeps a Poetical Bank and discounts pver. Our whole community is flooded with his cotes. There is no danger of his stopping. I wish there was. He is truly a dreadful animal, and ought to be treated, as the ancients did their mischievous bulls. He should have hay upon his head ;—.Famutra had productions without shame, and looks around with an air of triumph for approbation. He declares he was born a poet, and cannot help writing if he would; that he has the divine afflatus, and must pour out his abundant thoughts. He takes snuff to excess, and says he has a most hexcellent foice. Now, sir, can you imagine a greater bore Even sleep, my favorite resort, is denied me; for he will not suffer me to sleep, but like a fly, is perpetually tickling my nose with "how do you like that " "mark this," and "observe that." I groan in spirit, but the fellow has no bowels of compassion. Sometimes in a frenzy I jump up and rush out, but he follows me, and continues reading long after I get out of the reach of his foice. With all this, he has not the most distant idea of his own absurdity. Once I slept in the same room with him; I say slept, because by great good luck his poetical blunderbuss had been left down stairs. In the middle of the night, I felt some one shaking me; and opening my eyes, there he stood over me, in his shirt-t-, with a candle in one hand, and a written paper in the other, to read to me•some beautiful thoughts which he had been embodying. He has written a sort of mock heroicomical poem, which it was my purpose to send you with my annotations and reflections. It is called the Diviad, and is founded upon a story which was current some years ago, of one of our Pres—ts, who was remarkably fond of swimming, and who, upon one occasion, went out with his son to the Potomac, and in the course of their aquatic pranks overturned their boat, and lost all their clothes. After various attempts to recover them by diving, they succeeded in obtaining a portion of the habiliments of the father and son, but not enough to rig out the former for a becoming entrance into Washington. By sending off the son, a cabinet council was called, consisting of B—,	C	, and R , who respectively gave their opinions to his majesty mounted upon his throne (viz. the bottom of the boat,) as to the most advisable mode of getting back to Washington without When the storm of human life has passed, any tumultuous passions have subsided into a calm, pleasant to look back upon the dangers we hay( countered, and the narrow escapes we have had impending destruction. Riding at anchor in the haven of old age, memory loves to wander back the past, and to contemplate the successive even which we have been brought to our present cond: How mysteriously connected seem occurrences the distant from one another, forming links in that chain to which our lives may be compared ! ' seated at ease, in my old arm-chair, my snug ha and having recourse to that peaceful enjoyment of the pipe, which helps one to think, it is my pnrpc recur to some incidents of my life, which dlustrat mysterious connection alluded to, and show how cumstances, the most trivial in their nature, and ready requiring no circumspection on our parts, give a color to our fates. With the mind's eye, I now see the cloud, no bigger than a man's hand, la arose to spread over and darken my heavens. Reader, I do not like my exordium; it is a altogether unnatural to me, and savors too strong] the circumlocutory vice of the day, to be agreedbli shall never tell my story, if I go on in that fashion I pray _you let me fall into my natural gait. 'Well, to begin at the beginning—My parents poor, "but not so ti—dpoor, neither," as an old fi i once said to his lawyer, interrupting film in the r of his speech, in which he was pathetically depil the abject poverty of his client. Every thing depe. upon the establishment of his poverty, but pride neither," thereby completely overthrowing the attorney whose risible muscles could no more be controlled than could those of the whole court. My parents were poor, but still they were able to educate me, as most parents then did, by sending me to an oldfield school, where the three R's, as I have somewhere read, (Reading, Riting, and 'Rithmetic,) were taught in perfection, and some Latin besides. Here I spent the morning of my existence, and while "winters of memory" are rolling over me, I look back to this school as the fountain of all the misfortunes of my life. While others recur to their school-boy days as the bright spot—the Oasis in the desert of their lives,—I see in mine nothing but the Upas tree, which blighted every thing around it. I can recall in perfect freshness .the picture of our schoolhouse and the surrounding scenery. In the centre of a large field of broom-straw, skirted on every side but one by pines, stood the house, a plain building of sawed logs, crammed, as we say in Virginia, with mud; on the side excepted, there was a fine grove of oaks, through which passed the public road; a common worm fence enclosed the yard, which was entered by a stile of rude blocks. My feelings of awe on first crossing that stile can never be forgotten. I had never seen a school-master, but had formed a dreadful idea of one, having heard so much of the instructive jerk of his arm. A buzzing sound proceeded from the house, which I could not understand. I approached and knocked, and as soon as the door was opened, such a scene met my eyes, and such a Babel of noise assailed my ears, that I stood for some time rooted to the spot. The master, a rough looking Irishman, dreadfully marked with the small-pox, was scuffling with an overgrown boy, who used in his defence, with no little dexterity, a rule, from one end of which hung a string and lead pencil. After a smart rap over the knuckles of the pedagogue, I heard the boy exclaim, "I'll be bound you'll never -write AVOIRDUPOIS of the room were ranged desks and benches, with large splotches of ink, and whittled al pieces, and around sat about twenty boys of a One little chubby-faced fellow, whose feet cc reach the floor, was crying out, at the very tot voice, b-i-a, bla, and all the rest were spelling ing in the most abominably loud and dissonar and with that peculiar whine which a child at I eiders as the distinctive characteristic of reading posed to.talking. Some were at great	little c some at a-bom-i-na-ble, and some at con-eat-e-n and such a concatenation of abominable sour tainly had never heard in my life before. The they saw me, all save the combatants, were as Tam O'Shanter's witches, when he cried ot dons, Cutty Sark." Before I had power to mo the station I occupied, the scuffle between the the school-master terminated in favor of the lay proved game, while the former showed the d and attempted a retreat through the door. AI proached, I started on one side to give him a fi sage, but unfortunately he was not aware of ni! anent, and we came in contact, by which me whole party, school-master and all, tumbled he head into the yard. The rebellious boy by this was caught, and received in my presence suet ing, as proved our teacher to be fully as expert most expert flogger in all Oviedo." Such was my initiation into the mysteries of field school ; and the reader will see at once cannot be held responsible for the defects of my tion. Wbat could I learn in this Babel but the sion of tongues There reigned here a constant between democracy and despotism; and notwil ing the strong arm of authority was against physical force was on our side—and so varioi our means of annoying our tyrant, that he w mately obliged to succumb, and wink at our eno was soon laughed out of this ; for the doctrines of infidelity had penetrated, at thatetime, almost every hovel in the land, and even school-boys might be heard promulgating the sentiments of the deists. I soon followed the example of those around me, and found, with Mr. Feathernest, that "a good conscience was too expensive a luxury for me to indulge in." I could not keep pace with my schoolmates it I remained too conscientious, and especially with Benson, the overgrown boy, who had given me my first lesson in rebellion. He was the incarnation of every thing vile, and never forgave me that unlucky tumble which I so innocently gave him on the threshhold of our school. He conceived the most inveterate antipathy to me, and left no stone unturned to thwart and vex me in every thing. So relentless were his persecutions, that my chief study became revenge ; and although obliged at first to submit to many a severe drubbing from his superior strength, I found frequent opportunities of retort, which did not leave him altogether victorious. It is not my intention to describe the multiplied incidents of such a life, which are familiar to every Virginian at least. Let it suffice, that having triumphed over our tyrant, we declared war against one another, as is often the case with more important communities, and we became divided into Bensonites and Buckskins. This feud became the all-absorbing matter of the school, and ramified itself into all our sports and occupations. Books were secondary considerations. The substitutes, positive, were boxing, jumping, leaping and bandy ; the comparative, were cock-fighting and fives ; the superlative, a scrub race. In all these various accomplishments I made a rapid. progress—and in gaffing a cock, I became supreme. I. shall not stop to enumerate my successive triumphs over Benson. I foiled him at length in every thing.; Our last desperate struggle for the mastery was in a pitched battle between his game-cock, the Emperor of Germany, and my King of Prussia. The whole neighborhood of the thrilling interest excited. In the first encounter of our royal personages,The Emperor struck the King a blow, which to all appearances seemed fatal. It wawa brain stroke, and for a while my old warrior seemed paralysed : Benson was in ecstacies. Confident of the valor of his majesty, and conjecturing his situation, I sprang forward and with all the seeming odds against me, I offered to treble the bet upon the King. It was immediately taken up ; and scarcely was it done, when my veteran combatant, rousing from his temporary stupor, flew at the Emperor, and literally cut him to mince-meat. I shall take leave of my school with the acknowledgment that I issued from thence as finished a devil in most things, as Pandemonium could have turned loose; and with such exquisite accomplishments as those of cock-fighter, horse-racer and five-player, it is not wonderful that I speedily ran through the little property my well-meaning and industrious parents had made a shift to leave me. I thank God, they were spared the exhibition of my folly, by being removed from this world just as my propensities were blossoming. My reader, if I ever have one, must not, however, suppose from what I have said of my vices, that I was altogether corrupt. "None are all evil." I had not forgotten all the lessons of virtue I had received from my parents, and especially those which were occasionally instilled into me by a being whom I must ever revere and hold in grateful recollection : I mean the wife of my school-master, who was so meek and gentle, so kind and affectionate, such a pattern of genuine benevolence and goodness, that I loved her like a mother, and in despite of my wildness, would hearken sometimes to her counsels. She cast the bread upon the waters, and it was found afterwards in the circumstance, that although I plunged into every species of dissipation, I never lost that sense of honor, which kept my hands from picking and stealing, and my tongue from evil speaking, lying and slandering. I in ured myself more than any one e\ile, vend. I do not seemed determined to protract our warfare to the scenes of after life. We both fell in love with the same girl, and a duel would have been the consequence, had my antagonist possessed half the courage of his Emperor of Germany; but cowardice is always the associate of cold-blooded villainy. I know not whether his craven spirit decided our love affair in my favor, but this I know, that the immortal author of the Cockiad has said, with great truth, that Having sunk, at last, the whole of my little patrimony, and finding myself sinking fast in the estimation of those who flee with "the lees of the wine cask," I resolved on removing to a distant county, and turning over a new leaf. Sated with pleasure, as it is foolishly called, and pressed by necessity, I determined to try that sort of life which had been so often recommended by my excellent friend, and by dint of industry and economy was doing well, when, as Providence ordered, my evil genius, Benson strayed to the neighborhood, and settled himself as a carpente in our little county town. I know not whether there be any thing in the feeling which we call presentiment, but I remember a sort of sinking at my heart when this man first crossed my path. He accosted me in terms of an old acquaintance, and I did not repel his civilities; but I secretly resolved to have as little to do with him as possble, because I was fully aware of the profligacy of his nature, and I was not so secure in my own resolutions of amendment as not to fear contamination from his company. He seemed determined to force himself upon me, and notwithstanding all my efforts to shun him, I could not avoid altogether the discredit of his friendship. This was particularly disagreeable to me, because I had formed many valuable acquaintances, and depended wholly upon their good opinion for success in my dated the scenes of riot and debauchery, when before wasorder and quiet. Gambling, re and cock-fighting were the elements which see necessary to his existence; and how he contrive support the extravagance of his expenditure upon slender means as a workman, was more than any could tell. I never joined in any of his excesses, as I said before, I could not avoid the discredit of acquaintance, and came in for my share of the od which insensibly attaches itself to those who have familiar with the worthless ; and at the same tir incurred the vindictive hatred of Benson, who never forgotten the ancient enmity of our school days ; and the time was rapidly approaching whet had an opportunity of glutting his malice to the fu extent. One morning, about day-break, in the month of ruary, —, I was crossing the country to my ( employment, in order to gain a public road, which to the place of my occupation, when just as I at the highway, my ear caught the rapidly retres sounds of a horse's feet, and looking to my right I the figure of a horseman, just disappearing at an .a of the road. I thought the figure resembled Benst but the view was so transient that might be mists and I deemed this the more probable because I supp him at that time to be in another part of the cow I proceeded down the road in an opposite direction, had not gone more than a half mile, when I discovi near a small thicket on the side of the road, the e body of a man, covered with blood. His bat placed near him, with some papers and his watch i and apistol was slightly grasped in his right hand. a small distance was a horse saddled and bridled, tied to a tree. It was impossible that the horse! should have passed without seeing these objects, a. therefore supposed that he might have entered the] lic road at a cross one, which I had passed before was rich and not known to be unhappy, or under any possible inducement to commit so desperate a deed as self-murder. Upon further examination, I picked up the half burnt wadding of the pistol, and unfolding it perceived it was a piece of calico, the figure of which was easily discernible ; the propriety of its preservation, however, never occurred to me. I continued to hold it in my hand as I proceeded in my inquiries, and without thinking of it, or intending to do so, I put it in my pocket, and never thought of it again until some time after. I examined the ground, which was very hard frozen, but could perceive no other tracks than those of the horse which had belonged to the dead, and even those were scarcely to be seen. What should I do 'I was now the question. I concluded it would be best to mount the horse ; and ride off as speedily as possible to the mansion of the old gentleman, and give the alarm to his son who resided with him ; I did so, and returned with him immediately to the scene. We made no other discovery which could lead to a development of the mystery ; we went to the cross-road spoken of, and saw the faint traces of a horse upon it, as I had conjectured. The young man informed me that his father had determined the previous week upon a journey to the town of ---, and probably had a considerable sum of money about him, but we could find none. His watch was a very valuable one, and would doubtless have been taken had he been murdered. The placing of his papers and his watch in his hat, looked like a deliberate design, which could scarcely be imputed to an assassin, whose hurry upon a public road would have been too great for such deliberation. The pistol, however, he had never seen before. His father had frequently manifested some slight oddity of manner, but the son had never dreamed of such a termination of his existence. Upon the whole, the matter seemed to baffle conjecture, and so it appeared on the coroner's inquest. A verdict of death by some unknown means was the result, Three or four months had passed away, and the whole affair seemed buried in oblivion, when one day, in the presence of Benson only, I intimated my inter. tion of setting out the following morning for the town of —, and he carelessly asked me if I would do him the favor to sell for him a tobacco note, which he had. received in payment for some work. As I could see no sort of objection to so friendly an act, I readily assented ; my reader must be informed that tobacco was at that time a sort of currency, and familiarly used in all transactions like money. I went to town, transacted my own business, sold the tobacco, and returned home and paid the proceeds to Benson. I thought no more of the matter until a few weeks after, when, to my utter astonishment, I was arrested upon the charge of having murdered the old gentleman abovementioned. My amazement was considered well feigned by his son, who assured me that the evidence against me was inesistible, and sneeringly asked me how I became of his father's tobacco? The truth maz instantly upon me, that I had been made the dupe of a designing villain, and at once I saw the peril of my situation. I replied that I had received the tobacco from Benson, and desired to be confronted with him, that I might see whether he would deny the truth .of my assertion ; the officer who arrested me consented, as Benson lived in the village where the jail was, and accordingly I stood before him, searching every line; ment of his dark countenance with an eye of fire. Did you not give me a tobacco note to sell for you several weeks ago? No, was his sullen reply. Villain, I exclaimed, do you dare to deny it and I sprang upon him with all the violence of a man who saw the desperation of his situation, unless he could obtain a confession. I should certainly have strangled the scoundrel with any grasp, had I not been overpowered by numbers, and dragged away to prison. My violence served but to confirm the suspicions of my persecutors, who well imagined how horrible was the train of my thoughts. I felt like some malefactor whose prison was on fire, and who saw no chance of escape from the irons which held him chained to the wall. What could I do had certainly sold the tobacco, and was known by the purchaser, and could be identified ; no one had seen me receive the tobacco from Benson ; no body had seen me pay him the money on my return. That tobacco, it appeared, was part of a parcel of notes which were known to be in the possession of the old gentleman murdered, and found to be missing when papers were examined by his son, who was his executor and heir, and who resolved to watch in silence their sale, as the clue to the assassin of his father. He had taken his measures wisely, and upon going to town some weeks after my visit to the same, he discovered that the note had been sold to a merchant, who, upon application, described the individual from whom he had bought it, and disclosed his name. Here was a chain of evidence absolutely conclusive, even if I had not been the person who discovered the body and gave the alarm. What would it avail to say that I had no such pistol as the one found near the body It is always easy to procure materials which might lead inquiry astray. What object could I have in officiously disclosing the murder, and endeavoring to trace the murderer, as I had done, in company with the son? The answer was easy ; the more effectually to mislead the judgment. How corroborative of my guilt was the circumstance that no trace of another horse was visible on the spot. It would be vain to urge that the author of the deed might have designedly passed on the other road, and have crossed to the thicket on foot, and having committed the crime, might have returned to his horse on that road. Conjectures of this sort might have availed, had there been any corroborative circumstances to do away with the damning fact of my having possession of the note ; but there were none. No one had seen the horseman myself. It is true it had been good since my residence in the county; but from whence did I come, and what was my standing in the place of my nativity? I could not hope for aid in that quarter. No, the death of a felon was inevitable Such were the thoughts which occupied my mind during the first night of my confinement! In the morning came my wife and child to see me. It is impossible to convey any idea of the deep sense of degradation I felt, notwithstanding my innocence at the reception of my family in a jail. My angel wife saw my pain and endeavored to soothe me by every means in her power; she assured me that she doubted not _my innocence for a moment, and that she trusted in God for my deliverance. My child climbed my knee and asked me why I did not come home and what I staid there for, and repeated a thousand endearing little circumstances connected with home, which wrung heart, and produced a feeling of bitterness which I never known before. I caressed him fondly and pro- miaed to come back, and beseeched my wife to tau him away, as I could not bear the agonizing emotion he awakened. I preferred being alone, as I felt eves her company a restraint to me, while my mind was occupied so intensely with the contemplation of my situation. She wisely withdrew, but did not fail to return each day, to offer me all the consolation in her power, and to provide for my accommodation, of which she saw me entirely regardless. I will not dwell upon what may be readily imagined. Day after dairopmassed without the smallest ray of hope of escape	my perilous condition. I employed counsel, but had nothing to say to him but the repetition of my innocence, nor could he conscientiously offer me any prospect of acquittal. The examining court was held, and the re-suit was what might have been expected. I was remanded to jail for further trial at the superior court, and spent two dreadful months of tedious restraint, patient under the trials of life, as long as there was Chance of avoiding them. Small matters always wised me more than great ones, and now that I had wed my condition in all its possible aspects, and had :ome satisfied that there was no escape from my Bp I fortified my mind and resolved to bear my lot th a firmness which should at least exempt me from itempt. I was sitting with my wife on the evening ceding my trial, and was once more detailing to her circumstances attending my accidental discovery of body of the old gentleman murdered. I was at her uest, more minute than usual, as her mind was dowdy bent upon finding some clue to lead us from labyrinth of difficulties. The circumstance of the f-burnt wadding of the pistol had until now passed irely out of my mind, but the instant I mentioned it, started up and exclaimed, what became of it . I I her it remained unnoticed in my pocket for a long e, but that at length I drew it forth accidentally one r and had thrown it into a drawer at home, which I cribed, not with any view of preservation, but simply be rid of it. She clasped her hand and devoutly nked God that there was yet a hope, and then manly addressed me thus : "My dear husband, I uld not for worlds, awaken a hope in your bosom may be disappointed. I perceive the enviable to of calmness to which you have been brought by goodness of God, but, nevertheless, a sudden thought I occurred to me which I will not reveal to you, lest should excite in your breast the same intensity of ling which pervades mine at this moment. I must tone ; farewell until to-morrow ; I cannot return ser." So saying, she hastened away, and I sought .t repose which is so difficult in situations like mine. lid sleep, however, and strange to say, my dreams .t night were all of a character the most pleasing, I my slumbers were more refreshing than those I I for some time experienced. But, oh ! what were whirlwind upon me, have left an impression whit never be effaced while memory lasts. It is t hastened to get the mastery of my mind again trampled down those thoughts for the day. I ba up heroically ; I attended the summons to cowl thcrity ; I walked through the gaping crowd firm step and manly look, and repeated the "not gm with a clear and determined voice. All the he prednof a trial had passed; the jury were et ne	the witnesses were sworn, and among ;trtl that son of Belial, Benson. The attorney for the monwealth had recapitulated all the disgusting cii stances of the murder, and showed their necesaar, unquestionable connexion with me ; my comae arisen to speak, when a slight movement amoi crowd behind me caused me to turn my head, beheld my wife making her way to the bar. touched the elbow of my lawyer and whispered ear. He received something from her, and then b the court to excuse him for a few moments. readily consented to do so, and in that painful int I rose and fixed my eyes sternly upon Benson, mined to watch closely his diabolical countenance. eye quailed beneath mine, and an evident pal came over his cheek. What had produced it 'I he seen what was tendered by my wife, or d guilty soul simply tremble before the keen glance victim? In a few moments my lawyer returned addressed the court with a strong appeal to *ell hies of humanity. He described the great peril prisoner, and the difficulties under which he la in producing proof to rebut a charge which seen be corroborated by such strong circumstances, an that he trusted the court would have patience at dulge him in any effort he might make to establis innocence of the accused. He then stated the pa lays I have already related respecting the waddi the pistol ing him in custody until a search could be made of his. house, and that a warrant might issue for that purpose. He was willing, he said, to rest the hopes of his client upon the result ofthe investigation to be made, whether there was any thing in Benson's house from which the half-burnt calico could have been torn. It was staking all, he admitted, upon a desperate throw; but seeing no better chance, if the court would have patience to make the inquiry and it failed, he would at once surrender the cause and give up the prisoner to his fate. The court, of course, assented. Benson was forthwith arrested; the warrant issued, and the officers of justice went to make the search, accompanied by my wife and my legal adviser. Who shall count the ages which rolled away while that search was making', The time seemed to me an eternity. Hope was awakened, and I could not suppress the throbbings of my heart. The court seemed as still as death. I fancied amidst that awful stillness, that every one could hear the pulsations of my heart. I tried every means in my power to be calm, but each effort seemed to increase my agitation. I listened for the sound of returning footsteps until I thought my heart would burst with the suspension of my breath. I turned my eyes again upon my foe, and he foo seemed striving in vain to be calm. He seemed uneasy and restless. What was the cause ? Was he indignant under suspicion? or was he fearful of detection I could not reason ; my senses were confused by the rapid circulation of my blood. At last the sound of coming steps was heard; the blood curdled at my heart, and I should have fallen but for the cry of joy which burst forth from my wife, as she entered the court. "It is found I it is found I" she exclaimed, "and my husband will not die. He is innocent! he is innocent." In an old chest, covered up by a pile of lumber in Benson's shop, was found a counterpane, from whence had been torn the piece of calico, used in loading the fatal pistol. The figure corresponded precisely, and this, taken in. against him, but in the same chest was discovered another pistol, the fellow of the one found in the hand of the murdered man. The testimony was thus so conclusive against him, that he acknowledged his guilt, and speedily suffered the penalty of his atrocious crimes. Such were the baneful consequences which flowed from my education at an oldfield school, where the laxity of authority engendered every vice. In galloping across the country lately, it was my fortune to lose myself, and to emerge suddenly upon the very spot where once stood our school house. Not a vestige remained of it ; the fine grove of oaks, beneath whose shade I had so often gambolled, were all cut down, and the broomstraw field was all washed by the rains into frijhtful gullies. Just so had time furrowed my cheek with the tears which had coursed them down, and I shuddered as I turned away from the scene of the contests of a Benson and a Bueirsirtx.
