	 COURT DAY ! what an important day in Virginia! what a day of bustle and business ! what a requisition is made upon every mode of conveyance to the little metropolis of the County ! How many debts are then to be paid !—how many to be put off! Alas ! how preponderate the latter! If a man says, "I will pay you at Court," I give up the debt as hopeless, without the intervention of the la. But if Court day be thus important, how much more so is March Court ! That is the day when our candidates are expected home from Richmond, to give an account of their stewardship; at least it used to be so, before the number of our legislators was lessened, with a view of facilitating the transaction of business, and with a promise of shortening the sessions. But, somehow or other, the public chest has such a multitude of charms, it seems now to be more impossible than ever to get away from it. as the song says, which makes our sessions "of so long a life ;" and there is no practicable mode of preventing the evisceration of the aforesaid chest, but deferring the meeting of the Assembly to the month of February, and thereby compelling the performance of the commonwealth's business within the two months which would intervene 'till the planting of corn. However, this is foreign to my present purpose, which is to describe a gene at which I have often gazed with infinite amuse -! ent. Would I had the power of Hogarth, that I might perpetuate the actings and doings of a March Coast; but having no turn that way, Picture to yourself, my gentle reader, our little tawr of Dumplingsburg, consisting of a store, a tavern, and a blacksmith shop, the common constituents of a count town, with a court house and a jail in the foreground as denoting the superior respect to which they are entl-„, tied. Imagine a number of roads diverging from thoiE, town, like the radii of a circle, and upon these roadik horsemen and footmen of every imaginable kind, moving-.. helter skelter, to a single point of attraction. Justices and some mighty river, swollen by rains, hurrying pell mell to the vast ocean which is to swallow them all - simile not altogether unapt, when we consider that the greater part of these people have law business, and the law is universally allowed to be a vortex worse than the Maelstrom. Direct the "fringed curtains of thine eyes" a little further to the main street—a street well entitled to the epithet main, in all its significadons, being, in truth, the principal and only street, and being, moreover, the political arena or cockpit, in which are settled, pugilistically, all the tough and knotty points which cannot be adjusted by argument. See, on either side, rows of nags of all sorts and sizes, from the skeleton just unhitched from the plough, to the saucy, fat, impudent pony, with roached mane and bobtail, and the sleek and long-tailed pampered horse, whose coat proclaims his breeding, all tied to the staggering fence Which constitutes the boundary of the street. Behold the motley assemblage within these limits, hurrying to and fro with rapid strides, as if life were at stake. Who is he who slips about among the "greasy rogues," with outstretched palm, and shaking as many hands as the Marquis Lafayette It is the candidate for election, and he distributes with liberal hand that barren chronile reigns, who are highly offended if they do not come in for a share of the delegate's bounty. The purchase and distribution of these papers is a sort of carmen secessariuns, or indispensable lesson, and it frequently happens that a member of the Assembly who has been absent from his post the whole winter, except upon the yeas and nays, acquires credit for his industry and attention to business, in proportion to the magnitude of the bundle he distributes of this uninstructive record. See, now he mounts some elevated stand, and harangues the gaping crowd, while a jackass, led by his room, is braying at the to of his lungs just behind him. The jack takes in his breath, like Fay's snorer, "with the tone of an octave flute, and lets it out with the profound depth of a trombone."Wherever a candidate is seen, there is sure to be a jackass ; surely his long-eared companion does not mean to satirize the candidate However that may be, you perceive the orator is obliged to desist, overwhelmed, perhaps, by this thundenn applause. Now the crowd opens to the right and left-, to make way for some superb animal at full trot, some Highflyer or Daredevil, who is thus exhibited ad captandian vulgus, which seems the common purpose of the candidate, the jack, and his more noble competitor. But look, here approaches an object more terrible than all, if we may judge from the dispersion of the crowd, who ensconce themselves behind every convenient corner, andpeep from their lurking holes, while the object of their dread moves onward, with saddle-on arm, a pen behind his ear, and an inkhorn at lus button-hole. Lest some of my readers should be ignorant of this august personage, I must do as they do in England, where they take a shaggy dog, and dipping him in red paint, they dash him against the st and write underneath, this is the Red Lion. This is the sheriff, and he is summoning his jury. "Mr. Buckskin, you, sir, dodging behind the blacksmith's shop, I summon you on the jury ;" ah, luckless w' ht he is caught and obliged to succumb. wards in the court house, you might hear somethini like the following colloquy : Judge. "What is your excuse, sir?" Juror. "I am a lawyer, sir." Judge. "Do you follow the law now, sir'?" Juror. "No, sir, the law follows me." . Judge. "Swear him, Mr. Clerk." Ah, there is a battle ! ! ! see how the crowd rushes tmiza the spot,—"who fights ?"—"part 'em"—"stand off "fair play"—"let no man touch"—"hurrah, Dick"— "at him, Tom." An Englishman, thinking himself in England, bawls out, "Sheriff! read the riot act !" A justice comes up and commands the peace ; inter arena silent lees; he is unceremoniously knocked down, and justice is blind, as ought to be the case. Two of the rioters attempt to ride in at the tavern door, and for a 'while all Pandemonium seems broke loose. To complete this picture, I must, like Asmodeus, unroof the court house, and show you a trial which I had the good fortune to witness : It was during the last war, when the vessels of Admiral Gordon were making their way up the Potomac to Alexandria, that a negro woman was arraigned for killing one of her . own sex and color. She had been committed for mur der, but the evidence went clearly to establish the deed to be manslaughter, inasmuch as it was done in sudden heat, and without malice aforethought. The attorney for the commonwealth waived the prosecution for muir der, but quoted British authorities to show that she might be convicted of manslaughter, though committed for murder. The counsel for the accused arose, and in the most solemn manner, asked the court if it was a thing ever heard of, that an individual accused of one crime, and acquitted, should be arraigned immediately for another, under the same prosecution ? At intervals, boom—boom—boom, went the British cannon. "British authorities !" exclaimed the counsel, "British authorities, gentlemen ! ! Is there any one upon the bench so dead to the feelings of patriotism, as at such a moment to foundation " This appeal was too cogent to be resisted. Up jumped one of the justices, and protested that it was not to be borne ; let the prisoner go; away with your British authorities ! The counsel for the accused rubbed his hands, and winked at the attorney ; the attorney stood aghast; his astonishment was too great for utterance, and the negro was half way home before he recovered from his amazement. A man who never quotes, it has been said, will in return never be quoted. By way, therefore, of quoting, and at the same time of being quoted, I have quoted a poem of my own, which "will never be published," written in attempted imitation of Beppo, and describing a sale in Virginia. Who has not seen something like the highest bidder, on Saterday the d of Janewary at Blank, all the housol and kitchen ferniter of the David Double, Esq. together with all the horses, mu sheep and hoges. Cash on all sums of five dollars under, and a credit of twelve mont, on the ballakl Bond with aproved sekurity will be required," Such a notification as the above, which is copied batim et spellatim, operates like an electric shock pi, whole neighborhood in that portion of the countrio. which I reside, especially upon that part of the pop( lation which can least afford to buy bargains.	la temptation of long credit is too great to be resister although no calculations of the ultimate ability to pa are ever made. The grand desideratum is to obtai the necessary security, and to purchase to a great, amount than five dollars. I am myself infected by th prevailing malady, and frequently buy what is of manner of use to me, simply because no cash is r, quired, and bonds are hard to collect, and suits may put off by continuances ; and matters of this sort, aft, all, may be settled by executors and administrator Among the rest, therefore, on the day appointed by th aforesaid notification, I mounted my horse, and sallie out upon the road leading to Blank, and fell in with large party going to the sale, principally managers, I they call themselves now-a-days, on the neighborin estates. Formerly they were yclept overseers, but th term is falling into disuse, as conveying the idea c something derogatory. They were mounted in ever variety of style ; there were long tails, and bob tails and nicked tails ; and I saw at least one sheep ski saddle and grapevine bridle. By-the-by, talking of grapevines, what a countr ours is for this invaluable article. Here is no need c hemp manufactories. Nature, in her exuberant gooil tress, has supplied an abundance of primitive rop which is just as convenient and efficacious as the be, cordage, t, &a tariff, when nature supplies us in peace or war te with this and many other articles of the first necessity, I, among which I once heard a Chotanker enumerate mint. "Why," said he, "should we fear a dissolution e. of the union, a separation of the north from the south, * when there is not a sprig of mint in all New England 'P' r. When this was said, peradventure it might be true ; a but, to my certain knowledge, at this day the word s julep is well understood much farther north than Ma i- son's and Dixon's line. Pardon me, reader, this digrese sion—for I am mounted to-day on a rough-going, head! * strong animal, that will have his own way, and wants r to turn aside into every by-path which he sees, and is as “teillyard a poumy" as that ridden by Dumbiedikes, r when he followed Jeanie Deans to lend her the purse of gold. But to return.—I cannot let this opportunity slip of singling out one of this group of horsemen for descrip tion, that you may have a graphic sketch of the sort of * folks and horses that live hereabouts. Wert thou ever * upon Hoecake Ridge and hast thou ever met in win ! ter a thorough-bred native of that region, mounted upon I his little shaggy pony, "skelping on through dub and mire," like 'ram O'Shanter Here he was to-day, in i his element, dressed in nankin pantaloons and a thin cotton jacket, and riding in the teeth of a strong north wester, singing "Life let us cherish." His saddle had no skirts, having been robbed of those useless appen , dages by some rogue who wanted a -pair of brogues; his bridle had as many knots as the sea serpent. But my business is not so much with him as with his pony, whm head and neck may be aptly represented by a maul and its handle. His tail is six inches long, and * standing at an angle of forty-five degrees with his back; his hair is long and shaggy ; he is cat-hammed, and his chest so narrow that his forelegs almost touch one another; his eyes snap fire when you plague him. You may talk of improving the breed of horses. Tell bite the grass which is absolutely invisible to hai eyes, and subsist upon it. If you would give hill ears of corn twice a-day, he would be almost too f travel. He never stumbles. Give him the rein, he will pick his path as carefully as a lady. powers of endurance exceed the camel's. His ml Is a sot, and his horse will stand all night at a tips shop, gnawing a fence rail; he almost prefers it corn-stalk which has been lying out all winter, common food. When his master comes forth mounts, he studies attitudes. If the rider reel t( right, the pony leans to the starboard side; if t( left, he tacks to suit him. If the master fall, he clear, having no girth to his saddle, and the pony not waste time in useless meditation upon accidents will happen to the best of us, but moves home' with accelerated velocity, leaping every obstacle ii way to his brush stable. It was my good fortune to drop in alongside cc man whp was mounted upon this incomparable ani and complimenting him upon his philosophy it selection of his song, and on the dexterity of his h I soon found he was a great politician, and we ch most agreeably until our arrival at the place of He was a violent —, but not a word of politics; nature and politics are different matters altogE You may be a great politician, you know, with particle of literature. Politicians are the last peos the world to bear a joke ; and if I were even to g at the discourse of my neighbors, there are many would not submit to this interference with their e sive business; they would see in it "more devils vast hell can hold." The world must therefo content to lose the humor of my singular acquaint as I cannot possibly do justice to his conces without the mention of names. I shall die, the unless I find some occasion of disclosing them, fi Hardcastle's man Diggory was never more diver his story of the grouse in the gun-room, than I v the political conceits of my lioecske-Tiaget. Having arrived at Blank, we hung ow rginians always do after riding them, and entered grounds before a venerable looking building which d been completely embowelled, and its contents were .ed in promiscuous heaps in various parts of the yard. ithin the great house, as it is usually styled, was eady assembled, around a blazing fire, a crowd of ceedingly noisy folks, all talking at once, and nobody parently listening. The names of our leading men e nded on every side, and the Tower of Babel never itnessed a greater confusion of tongues. For my own it, it always makes me melancholy to contemplate is inroad of Goths and Vandals upon apartments hich were once perhaps so sacred, and kept in order ith such sedulous attention. It seems a profanation—want of respect for the recently dead, and a cruel Itrage upon the feelings of the surviving family. Noing escapes the prying eye of curiosity—the rude Dtstep invades the very penetralia. The household ode, the dii penates, are all upturned; and mirth and reign amidst the precincts of woe. I felt like a tearing open the grave for my prey. The crier, e high priest of these infernal orgies, now came forard with his badge of office, the jug of whiskey, and 'flounced that the sale would commence as soon as could wet his whistle, which he proceeded to do, id then began to ply his customers. It is wonderful think how much ingenuity. has been displayed in 'ding out metaphors to describe the detestable act of ppling. The renowned biographer of Washington id Marion has embodied a number of these in one of . minor performances ; but several which I heard -day were new to me, and escaped his researches ; lus I heard one upbraid another for being too fond of tossing his head back," while a third invited his cotnmion to "rattle the stopper,"—and upon my taking a moderate drink, and so weak that a temperance ran would scarcely have frowned upon me, I was the liquid fire of the Greeks ran through the veins of tkti crowd, and they were quickly ripe for bidding. The "swats sae reamed" in their noddles, that every thing sold at a price far beyond its value, and our crier became so exceedingly facetious, and cracked so many excellent ironical jokes, that it is a pity they should be lost. Being unskilled, however, in stenography, I could not take down his words, and only remember that every untrimmed old field colt was a regular descendant of Eclipse ; the long nosed hogs were unquestionably Parkinson ; the sheep Merinoes ; the cattle, which were notoriously all horn, were short horns, &c. &c. They seemed to me to be a scurvy set of animals ; but those who saw them through a glass darkly, seemed to entertain a very different opinion. The "mirth and fun grew fast and furious," "till first a caper sin anither" "they lost their reasons a' thegither," and the sale closed in one wild, uproarious scuffle for every thing at any price whatever. It now became necessary to return home, an important consideration which had been wholly overlooked; and the difficulty of mounting our horses having been overcome after many trials, we began to "witch the world with feats of noble horsemanship." Such "racing and chasing'! had not been seen since the days of Cannobie lea, and quizzing became the order of the evening. Perceiving the mettlesome nature of. my steed, my friend, the politician and philosopher, seemed resolved upon unhorsing me, notwithstanding my entreaties that he would forbear, and by dint of riding violently up to me, and shouting out at the top of his voice, he so alarmed my nag, that he seized the bit between his teeth, and away I flew, John Gilpin like, to the infinite amusement of my persecutor, until I was safely de posited in a mud hold, near my own gate, from whence my character. As a finale to this mortifying business, my purchases were brought home the next day, and were most unceremoniously thrown out of doors by my wife, as utterly useless, being literally sans eyes, sans teeth, sans every thing; cracked pitchers, broken pots, spiders without legs, jugs without handles, et id gems owns. . INTERETING RUNS ON THE RAPPAHANNOCK. Ma. EDITOR.--AS I find you are about to establi a sort of Literary Emporium, to which every.man matter how trifling his capital of ideas, may send productions, I have resolved to transmit to you, n small wares and merchandize. The relation I sh bear to your other correspondents, will be that whi the vender of trifles in a town bears to the weak merchant; and, therefore, I shall assume an appropi ate title, and under this humble signature, shall co eider myself at liberty to offer you any ling I m have, without order or method, and just as I can my hands upon it. My head is somewhat like Don nie Sampson's, which, as well as I remember, sembled a pawnbroker's shop, where a goodly store things were piled together, but in such confusion, could never find what he wanted. When I get hold any thing, however, I will send it to you, and if it worth nothing, why, just "martyr it by a pipe." 	clay/ .— There cannot be a more striking exemplification of the powerful influence of laws upon the state of society, than is exhibited on the banks of the rivers in the lower part of Virginia. How many spacious structures are seen there, hastening to decay, which were once the seats of grandeur and a magnificent hospitality! The barons of old were scarcely more despotic over their immediate demesnes, than were the proprietors of these noble mansions, with their long train of servants and dependents; their dicta were almost, paramount to law, throughout their extensive and princely possessions.. But since the introduction of republican institutions, and the alteration in the laws respecting the descent of property, and more especially since the "docking of entails," a total change has been effected. Our castles are crumbling on every side—estates are subdivided into minuter portions, instead of being transmitted to the eldest son ; and so complete is the revolution in sentiment, that he would be deemed a savage, who would now leave the greater part of his family destitute, for the sake of aggrandizing an individual. It is not unusual to find a son in possession of the once splendid establishment of his fathers, with scarcely paternal acres enough to afford him sustenance, and hardly wood enough to warm a single chamber of all his long suite of apartments. The old family coach, with his mother and sisters, lumbers along after a pair of superannuated skeletons, and some faithful domestic, like Caleb Balderstone, is put to the most desperate shifts to support the phantom of former grandeur. Debts are fast swallowing up the miserable remnant of what was once a principality, while some wealthy democrat of the neighborhood, who has accumulated large sums by despising an Bucklaws and Craigengelts of the west. Many a story of deep interest mght be written upon the old state of things in Virginia, if we possessed some indefatigable Jedediah Cleishbotham, to collect the traditions of our ancestors. Those who took part in our revolutionary struggle, were too much enlightened not to foresee these consequences, and therefore deserve immortal credit for their disinterested opposition to Great Britain. Had they been aristocrats instead of the purest republicans, they would surely have thrown their weight into the opposite scale. We do not estimate enough the merit of the rich men of that day. The danger is now past—the mighty guerdon won—the storm is gone over, and the sun beams brightly : but though bright our day, it was then a dark unknown—dark as the hidden path beyond the grave—and it was nobly dared to risk their all in defence of liberty. They knew that freedom spurned a vain parade, and would not bow in homage to high-born wealth; yet their splendid possessions were staked upon the desperate throw, and the glorious prize was won. Such were not the anticipations of the founders of these establishments ; but such was surely the merit of their sons ; and it is painful to think how few, of all who engaged in that noble struggle, have been handed down to fame. Many a one, whose name has been loudly sounded through the earth, would have shrunk from such a sacrifice, and clung to his paternal hearth ; and yet these modern Curtii, who renounced the advantages of birth, and leaped into the gulf for their country's sake, have not won a single garland for their Roman worth. There is a scene in the county of Lancaster, where thetie reflections pressed themselves very forcibly upon my mind. Imagine an ample estate on the margin of the Rappahannock, with its dilapidated mansion house, the ruins of an extensive wall, made to arrest the inroads of our people. Like Old Mortality, I love to chisel out the moss covered letters of a tombstone ; and below I send you the result of my labors, with a request that some of your correspondents will take the trouble to give you a faithful translation of the Latin inscription. The only difficulty consists in the want of knowledge of the names of the officers under the colonial government. The epitaph will show by whom the church was built, and the motive for its erection. In the yard are three tombstones, conspicuous above all the rest, beneath which repose the bones of the once lordly proprietor of the soil, and his two wives. How vain are human efforts, to perpetuate by monuments, the memory of the great ! The sepulchre of Osymandus is said by Diodorus, to have been a mile and a quarter in circumference. It had this inscription : "I am Osyman dus, king of kings. If any one is desirous to know how great I am and where I lie, let him surpass any of my works." With more propriety might he have said, let him search out my works; for we are left to conjecture the very site of his tomb. It would be easy to extend this narrative, but perhaps what struck me as interesting would be unworthy a place in your Literary Messenger.	• Erattalattort. HERE LIES Robert Carter, esq., an honorable man, who exalted his high birth by noble endowments and pure morals. He sustained the College of William and Mary in the most trying times. HE WAS GOVERNOR, Speaker of the House, and Treasurer, under the most serene Princes% Nikallvsisa., Anne, George Nye lama 'M. About the period of what "I am gaup to tell," the ancient aristocracy of Virginia had passed through its death struggle; the times when the rich were every thing, and the poor nothing, had passed away ; and the high pretensions of the sons of the Cavaliers had yielded to the more levelling opinions of the Roundheads. The badges of distinction, such as coats of arms and liveries, had become too odious to be generally kept up; occasionally the latter were seen, but so rarely that they looked like the spectres of departed greatness, and excited a feeling of contempt or pity for the weakness of the master, rather than respect for his wealth and rank. There was once a class of people, nevertheless, who retained all their attachment to these distinctive marks ; and indeed they do so to this day : I mean the class of servants who belonged to the old families. They were the veriest aristocrats upon earth, and hated with the most unrelenting hatred, all the ignoble blood of the land, and deeply deplored the transition of pro-;lefty from the nobles to the serfs. Though their .own "ancient but ignoble blood" had literally almost "crept through scoundrels ever since the flood," they detested the poor and adored the rich. I shall never forget the fall of the year —. I had just graduated at one of our northern colleges, and re• ceived my two diplomas, with their red ribbons and seals attached. They were deposited by my friend, Andrew McMackin, the most expert diploma rigger in all the village, in a plain cylindrical pasteboard, for safe keeping, and would have remained there hard labor to obtain—aye, and twenty dollars to boot, Not satisfied, I suppose, with the attestation of the president and venerable board of trustees, they were desirous of adding their own ratification to my pretensions to science. Be that as it may, full of delightful anticipation at the prospect of returning to my native state, after an absence of four years, I took my seat in the mail stage, and travelled three hundred miles with out going to bed. Such a journey at this day of steam boat and railroad car, would be nothing, but at that time it was a great undertaking, and attended with much fa tigue. The vehicles were crazy, and often broke down, and the passengers had the pleasure of paying dearly for the privilege of walking many a mile through the mud. At length I arrived at the little town of F	, the end of my journey on the great mail route, where I ex pected to meet with some kind of conveyance to take me into the country to my uncle's. As I leaped from the carriage to the pavement, where many loiterers were gathered to witness the arrival of the stage, I found myself suddenly locked in the arms of some one who exclaimed, "There he is, the very moral of his grand, papa! God bless your honor, how do ye do ? I'm so glad to see you." Extricating myself with some degree of embarrassment, because of the crowd around me, I perceived that the salutation proceeded from one of our old servants, who stood gazing upon me with the most benevolent smile. His appearance was quite outr? to one who had lived so long at the north. His old and faded livery was blue, turned up with yellow; he held in his hand a horseman's cap, without the bear-skin ; his boots had once been white-topped, but could no longer claim that distinctive epithet; like Sir Hudibras, he wore but one spur, though probably for a different reason ; his high forehead glistened in the sun, and his slightly grey hair was combed neatly back, and queued behind with an eelskin so tight that he could hardly wink his eyes, exhibiting a face re ring my embarrassment, he drew back with a very irtly bow, declaring he was so glad to see me, he I forgotten himself and made too free. I made haste assure him that he had not—gave him a hearty shake the hand—called him Uncle Simon, a name he had rays been accustomed to from me, and drawing him de, overwhelmed him with questions about every ly and every thing at home. "Tell me," said I, pw is my uncle ?" "I thank you, sir, quite hearty, I much after the old sort—full of his projjecks, hell! perpechil motion, and what not." "What," said 'gill he at that still?" "Oh yes—oh yes—and carps to go without horses; God love you, Mass Ned, on't think they can go without animel nater." "And w does my aunt like all this " "Ah !" said he, ming up his hands with an air of disgust, "she can't de it—things go on badly. You 'member my four !ys ? so beautiful!—my four in hand !—all gone, all d. Why, sir, I could whistle them hawses to the irrut jest as easy as snap my finger. Our fine Loncharrut, too! that's gone, and my poor Missis, it aunt, has nothin to ride in but a nasty pitifullpark Eton." "I am sorry to hear it, Simon." "Why, las Ned, what mek you all let dem Denim Cats ye you so ? What you call 'ern ? Publicans yes, cane 'em as old master used to do." "But Simon, w is Cousin Mary " "Miss Mary? oh, Miss Mary beauty ; gay as a young filly, and she walks upon * pasterns." 'Well, well," said I, interrupting him, "Simon let be off; what have you brought for me to ride ?" Id Regius, sir, your old favorite." Having taken ae refreshment, and transferred my clothes to the ttmanteau, I mounted Regulus, who still showed his ping. He was a bright bay, and his hair was as ssy as silk, under Simon's management; his eye glanced its fire, and his wide nostrils gave token of impossible to keep up with me, mounted as he was on a high trotting, raw boned devil, that made the old man bound like a trap ball, whenever he missed his up-anddown-postilion movement. His figure, thus bobbing in front of a monstrous portmanteau and bearskin, was so ludicrous I could not forbear laughing; and reining up my steed, I told him I would ride slower, for the sake of conversation with him. "Do, my good sir," cried he, "for this vile garran will knock the breath ont of my body. If I had but my old hawse, Grey Dick, alive agin—that hawse, Mass Ned, was the greatest hawse upon the face of the yearth; I rod him ninety miles the hottest day that ever came from heaven; when I got through our outer gate, he seized the bit between his teeth, and run away with me, and never stopped till he got clean into the stable. Whenever I fed him, I was 'bliged to shet the stable door and go away, for if he heard me move, or a stirrup jingle, he wouldn't eat another mouthful, but stood with his head up, and his eyes flying about, impatient for me to mount." I knew this was a moment to put in a leading question to bring out a story I had heard a thousand times. "That was not the horse that ran away with you when a boy 'I" "No—no—that was Whalebone; your grand-papa used always to go to court in his coach and six; I can see him now, in his great big wig, hanging down upon his shoulders, and powdered as white as a sheet. I was then a little shaver, and always went behind the carriage to open the gates. Waitinman George rod the old gentleman's ridin hawse Bearskin, and led Mass Bobby's hawse Whalebone ; Mass Bobby rod in the carriage with old master. Well, one day, what should George do but put me up upon Whalebone, as give him the timber Flying Childers was nothing to him. When old master got home, there I was, with Whalebone as cool as a curcumber. I made sure I should get a caning, but all he said was 'D—n the fellow ! I blieve he could ride old Whalebone's tail off'—heh ! heh! heh !" I am sorry I cannot do more justice to the eloquence of Simon, who excelled in all the arts of oratory. His eyes spoke as much as his tongue ; his gestures were vehement, but quite appropriate ; he uttered some words in as startling a voice as Henry Clay, and his forefinger did as much execution as John Randolph's. As to his political opinions, he was the most confirmed aristocrat, and thought it the birthright of his master's family to ride over the poor, booted and spurred. It was his delight to tell of his meeting one day, as he swept along the road with his smoking four in hand, a poor man on horseback, whom he contemptuously styled a Johnny. He ordered the man to give the road ; but as he did not obey him as readily as he desired, he resolved to punish him. By a dexterous wheel of his leaders, he brought the chariot wheel in contact with the fellow's knee, and shaved button off as nicely as he could have shaved his with a razor. But enough of Simon. I beguiled the way by &taw; ing him out upon his favorite topics, until we got within sight of my uncle's house, a fine old mansion, with an avenue of cedars a mile in length. They had been t kept for several generations neatly trimmed, and he g who had dared to mar their beauty with an axe, would IL have been considered a felon, and met his fate without I benefit of clergy. I have lived to see them all qut down by the ruthless hand of an overseer, who sees no beauty in any thing but a cornstalk. However, this is wane dering from my present theme. Then they were in all a their evergreen loveliness, and I hailed them as my ancient friends, as I galloped by them, with a joyous feeling at approaching the scene of my-childhood. The I folding doors soon flew wide open, and the -w`aolie family rushed out to meet me, with tacosbeeatek,. fashioned Virginia promptitude. I must not std to describe a meeting which is always better imagined than described. Let it suffice, that after the most affectionate greeting, which extended to every servant about the premises, I was ushered to my bed room at a late hour, with as much of state as could be mustered about the now decaying establishment, and soon sunk into a profound slumber, well earned by the toils and fatigues of my journey. Early the next morning, before I left my room, my excellent and revered uncle paid me a visit, and ordered in the never failing julap,--such a one as would have done honor to Chotank. At the same time be suggested to me that he would greatly prefer my taking a mixture of his own, which he extolled as much as Don Quixote did his balsam to Sancho, or Dr. Sangrado his warm water to Gil Blas. It was a pleasant beverage, he said, compounded of an acid and an alkali. He had discovered, by close observation, that all diseases had their origin in acid, and that alkali of course was the grand panacea ; even poisons were acids, and he had no doubt that he should be able to form a concrete mass, by means of beef gall and alkali, which would resemble and equal in virtue the mad stone. If I felt the slightest acidity of stomach, I would find myself relieved by one of his powders. He had written to DI'. Rush on the subject, and be showed me a letter from that gentleman, at which he laughed heartily, and in which the doctor protested he might as well attempt to batter the rock of Gibraltar with mustard seed shot, as to attack the yellow fever with alkali. I could not help smiling at the earnestness of my dear uncle, and assured him that I had no doubt of the virtues of his medicine, but as I was quite well, I would rather try the anti-fogmatic • and if I should feel indisposed I would resort to his panacea ; although I secretly resolved to have as little to do with it as Gil Blas had with water. Having dressed myself, and descended to the break fast room, I there met my aunt and cousin, who soon made me acquainted with the present condition of the visionary schemes; and I saw abundant evidence of the wreck of his fortune, in the absence of a thousand comforts and elegancies which I had been accustomed to behold. He soon joined us, and such was his excellence of character, that we carefully avoided casting the smallest damp upon his ardor. Indeed, he was a man of great natural talent, and much acquired information, and was far above the ridicule which was sometimes played off upon him by his more ignorant neighbors. I almost begin to think that we were the mistaken ones, when I look around and see the perfection of many of his schemes, which I then thought wholly impracticable. When old Simon thought that a carriage could never go without anirnel nater he certainly never dreamed of a railroad car, nor of the steam carriages of England ; and when my uncle gravely told me that he should fill up his ice house, and manufacture ice as he wanted it in summer, by letting out air highly condensed in a tight copper vessel upon water, I did not dream of the execution of the plan by some French projector. I must not be thus diffuse, or I shall weary the patience of my reader. A ride was proposed after breakfast, and my uncle immediately invited me to try his newly invented vehicle, which could not be overset. "I have constructed," said he, "a carriage with a moveable perch, by means of which le body swings out horizontally, whenever the wheels on one sidepass over any high obstacle or ground mere elevated than the other wheels rest upon ; and I shall be glad to exhibit it to a young man who is fresh from college, and must be acquainted with the principles of mechanics. I readily accepted his proposal, although I trembled for my neck, but declared I had no mechanical turn whatever, and could not construct a wheelbarrow. He was sorry to hear this, as he was in hopes I would be the depository of all his schemes, and bring them to perfection, in case of his death, for the benefit of his family. We soon set off on our ride, and bones but the lowness of our vehicle. Never shall I forget the chagrin of my uncle, nor the impatient contemptuous look of Simon, as he righted the carriage ; he did not dare to expostulate with his master, but could not forbear saying that he had never met with such an accident when he drove his four greys. "Ah, there is the cause," said my uncle, much gratified at having an excuse for his failure, "Simon is evidently intoxicated ; old man, never presume to drive me.again when you are not perfectly sober; you will ruin the most incomparable contrivance upon earth." Simon contented himself with a sly wink at me, and we made the best of our way home ; my uncle promising me another trial in a short time, and I determining to avoid it, if human ingenuity could contrive the means. The next day, as I was amusing myself with a book, my uncle came in from his work-shop, with a face beaming with pleasure ; and entering the room, proceeded in the most careful manner to close all the doors ; and producing a small crooked stick, said to me with a mysterious air, "My boy, this stick, as small and inconsiderable as it seems to be, has made your fortune. It is worth a million of dollars, for it has suggested to me an improvement in my machine for producing perpetual motion, which puts the thing beyond all doubt." "Is it possible," cried I, "that so small a stick can be worth so much " "Yes, depend upon it—and I carefully closed the doors, because I would not be overheard for the world. Some fellow might slip before me to the patent office, and rob me of my treasure." I observed that nobody was there who could possibly do so. "Yes, somebody, might be casually passing, and I cannot be too vigilant. I take it for granted," he resumed, "that you are apprised of the grand desideratum in this business. You do not Imagine with the ignorant, that I expect to make mat ter last longer than God intended ; the object is to get a machine to keep time so accurately, that it may be used at sea, to ascertain the longitude with precision. Do fifty -thousand pounds ; but owing to the metallic ex pansion it would not be entirely accurate." I answered that I had not so much as heard of the Board of Longitude—and he proceeded to explain his improvement, of which I did not comprehend a syllable. All that I felt sure of, although I did not tell him so, was that he would not succeed in realizing the million of dollars; and accordingly, when admitted, as a great favor into his sanctum sanctorum, the work-shop, to witness his machine put in motion, it stood most perversely still after one revolution, and "some slight alteration," remained to be made to the end of the chapter,—until hope became extinct in every breast, save that of the projector. I could fill a volume with anecdotes of this sort, but I will add only one, as descriptive of the very great height to which visionary notions may be carried. My uncle was a federalist, and of course hated Buonaparte from the bottom of his soul. He told me, as a profound secret, that he had discovered the means of making an old man young again, by removing from him the atmospheric pressure, and that nothing deterred him from making the discovery, but the fear that Buona parte would attach his machinery to a body of soldiers, and fly across the British Channel, and thus light down
