FIAB.SHAM Comm, GEORGIA, Sept. ""th,   My Dear Sir I have at length reached this utmost bourn of Georgia—a !erne impita to the people of the United States—where the great Allegheny range of mountains terminates in a thousand isolated peaks and picturesque valleys, through which the dividing waters take their course, eastward and westward and southward. Here the Terrors Creek gushes forth, and, rending the granite hills, tumbles from cliff to cliff—forming the terrific cataracts of Tallulah—and winding its way amidst the wildest scenery, swells the current of the great Savannah, and blends its waters with the Atlantic Ocean five hundred miles south-eastward. In the same hill, and within a few steps, are the sources of the Chatahoocheiwhich, taking a south-westward direction, flow into the Gulf of Mexico at the distance of six hundred mil.: and but three hundred yards from these, are the springs of the Highwassee" which run north-westwardly into the Tennessee, and, after a circuit of nearly a thousand miles, fall into the Ohio River. From this elevated point of land, I look down on the states of Notth and South Carolina, Tennessee and Georgia. To the north and west, mountains rise amphitheatrically, ridge behind ridge, until distance blends them with the azure vault of heaven. To the south, the broken fragments of the mountains lie scattered in heaps; and to the east, the alluvial plains descend to a boundless horizon, dark and blue as the sea, out of which rises the Stone Mountain in DeKalb County, like an isle in the midst of the ocean. lb the geologist, nature here unfolds her secret laboratory in the deep chasTn of Tallulah and the bold cliffs of Mount Yonah, rising two thousand seven hundred feet above the valley of Naucooche." She invites the mineralogist to her richest arcana, where every rivulet sends forth its golden sands and gems abound, and veins yet unexplored. The lover of romance is invited here to wander amongst the scenes of adventure by .Guy Rivers"," and the pony club, the brigands of this Alpine region. But to the artist, and the admirer of the picturesque, these lofty hills and verdant val., these yawning chasms and foaming cataracts, throw wide their varied beauties, and invite his wandering steps. Toccoa, or the beautiful Cascade, is indeed a scene of enchanting beauty, where fairies might dance by its sparkling light, and gem their robes with its pearly drops, or see themselves in As placid pool. It falls from the top of the Blue Ridge, in one unbroken sheet of water, twenty feet wide and one hundred and eighty-six in height, down a perpendicular wall, into a rocky basin, which it reaches in such dewy-drops . to leave unruffled As bosom of the reservoir, but fans the air with gentle zephyrs-- and the ascending spray reflects an iris over the dark verdure of the embowered scene, where lofty elms mantle As beauty with a flickering veil. if it were too modest for the vulgar gaze. Tallulah" (or the terrible, in Indian parlance,) is a more masculine scene, bearing no more comparison with Toccoa, than would the Inferno of Dante with the Georgics of Virgil. It met our view, not with the smiles of its modest rival, but with the angry brow and hoarse murmurings common to the rougher sex. He looked defiance from his deep mote and granite walls, and came bounding by us, foaming and fretting in his furious course, to meet his gentle sister in the Tugalo.' The visitor in approaching this scene finds himself on the verge of a yawning chasm; down which he looks, perhaps a thousand feet, and near as many wide, cleaving the mountains for several miles. At one moment, he stands upon a projecting rock and clings to a stunted pine, whilst he peeps into the abyss below, where rocky ledges sustain a stately growth of forest-trees, or perpendicular cliffs extend to the bottom of the ravine. There, the water is caught into a basin of its own carving in the solid granite, and is then dashed down the precipice in the whitest foam, and whirled from side to side, meandering, until another fall engulfs it, and then another, until lost in the sinuosities of its own dark channel. I will not compare these falls with those of the Velino fountains," which inspired the muse of Byron--for Terni combines the beauty of Toccoa with the sublimity of Tallulah;"" but those who have seen the Natural Bridge of Virginia, may remember they are looking up a rent in the great globe, four times as deep, and ten times as wide as that spanned by the bridge, and not through a limestone formation; but the everlasting granite has yielded to the attrition of water, and laid open the bowels of this mundane sphere, where veins of purest quartz shine at the depth of a thousand feet. How came they there? What fires heaved up these mighty hills and filled them all with gold? Mount Yonah is to Georgia as the Peaks of Otter to Virginia, but not so lofty. The view, however, from its summit, is as extensive, and very beautiful. The Unalca, or Smoky Mountain, in Tennessee, (here called the Blue Ridge) may be seen in the north-west, rising like the clouds of a gathering storm--and around Mount Yonah on every side is the rich We leave Clarksville this evening, and you shall hear from me again on my tour. D, Sp:. "" The Cherokees called gold tablonega, from which this place derived its name as the centre of the gold region. It is the county town of Lumpkin, and situated on a high hill, with others overlooking it, very similar in appearance to the convent of Valambrosa, in the Appenines;." from which, it is thought, Milton drew his description of Paradise. The surrounding country exhibits the appearance of "Ocean into tempest tosel. and suddenly congealed; and notwithstanding the sterility of the soil, a heavy growth of wood covers the steep acclivity and throws its dark shadow over the deep glen below—but scarcely a foot of tillable land can be found; and were it not for the hidden treasures of the mine, no human habitation would have intruded on the haunt of the wild-deer and wolf: but "nature abhors a vacuum," and supplies the deficiencies of every portion with an equivalent for what it has not—the rice field and the sea island supply provision and clothing for mankind—and the mountains supply him with mineral wealth and hygienic fountains. This country, you know, was recovered from the Cherokees but a few years sin.; and that portion supposed to have gold, was divided by the state into forty acre lots, and disposed of by lottery to the people—each man and woman having one chance. As you may suppose. there was much variation in the value of these lots; but N. "" was considered the El Dorado of the whole—and happy would that man be to whom A might fall.' The day came, and it was announced the portion of a poor much dryer and more elastic. There has not been a case of fever. this year, and I am told that there never is any but such as may be traced to the grossest imprudence. You have therefore nothing to apprehend for our health; and as we shall remain here a month or more, and shall be at Milledgeville during the session of the Legislature, I may hereafter givey further sketches of Georgia scenes. On a fine morning in September  , a patty of which the writer wasone, consisting for the most l o	part of f'nmen	on a visit to certain remarkable xavoast. aysvarvaaa which ley in the neighborhoal oC the Augusta Springs, rend about twenty miles distant from the place of their de After passing over a hilly and picturesque count, the road opened upon a fertile Talky, which though in '"nan''"''rca"t"Wel=';anc:""dsenfomanelevatedposs ,apf ikotte of an ancient lake, or as it really is, the alluvial border of a flowing stream. The strata of. ltmestone hills,followed their usual onler of parallel Imes to the groat mountains of our continent, though a strong current had once swept through this magnificent.valley,forming in its COMO islands and promontories,—which are now discoverable in numerous short hills and reeky ":",utTs, that are either naked at trx,:irchooarepr:" jele'tilo?i,grItt?sttel=ried the gray summits of what seemed a ruinous castle,—resenabling dime which were ' raised in feudal times to guard the passe, of tho Rhino, *rortr Iny'anuthAlare rot";"" ' nslitt"firnt=ronf which thejare seven, lifted their heads almve tho lofty el, like so many antique chimnies in the midst of a grove; but, on approaching them nearer, our plea "i*"gre';'ecd,''nd'l=t perpendicularly ronreted et a sham	, which winding around their base, scree. as a natinal moat to a building not made with mortal hands. The southern front of this colonial pile, presents a wall of about sixty feet elevation, terminating in three towers of irregular height, and perforated at its base by a cavern,—which, by an apt association, was denominated "Vulcan? /Inge The tower on the extreme right, woe unanimously canal .Cocke's Toter,—In honor of one of our party tole*nr:df— XII:i.ch On othe=resitn'aVtjiincer isZ tl • .utshell us the "Hymn. Altar,..--a "a  which had its origin partly in a jeu d'esprit, and partly on account of a shady bower in its rear, which seemed an appropriate shade to mantle maiden's blushes. The furthest and tallest, received the title of the " Tower of Babel." This is also the most perpendicular of all these rocky structures; an archway passes through it, by which there is an easy ascent to the remaining two, which stand on the acclivity of the hill,—and though of less altitude, are not of inferior beauty to the rest. One of them, which is of a round form, and flat at the top, and on that account received the appellation of the " Table Rock"—affords from its summit a splendid view of the whole ; the other, and last of the five, we distinguished as "Shelton's Rock"—from one of our party. These rocks in their formation resemble the palisades on the Hudson river—but are more regular in their strata,--which appear to have been arranged in huge masses of perfect workmanship—with projections like cornices of Gothic architecture, in a state of dilapidation. Those who are acquainted with the structure of the Cyclopean walls of the ancients, would be struck with the resemblance,—which suggested the name at the head of this article. We pause to inquire why these primeval fragments of the world have remained so long unnoticed? Why is it that men are so easily awakened to the liveliest interest in distant objects, and yet neglect those which are nearer and more accessible? "A prophet" it bath been said on high authority, "bath honor save in his own country,”—and to that strange propensity of the mind to contemn whatever is familiar, must be attributed the neglect of many of the richest treasures at our own door, which frequently impart both wealth and distinction to foreign enterprise. For many years these towers have been known in the surrounding country, by the homely appellation of " THE CHIMNEYS,"—but no one has ever stopped to examine them, or to inquire how nature formed so curious a pile in such a spot. Imagination may indeed conceive that this noble structure was once the Scylla of a narrow strait connecting the waters of the north and the south, until their accumulated pressure burst through the blue ridge at Harper's Ferry, and left in their subsidence these towers, as a perpetual memorial of their former dominion. G. C. [We do not remember where or when the following Sonnet to Lord Byron was published. All we know is that it has been in print before, and has been ascribed to the pen of the Hon. R. H. Wilde, of Georgia.] ORIGINAL SONNET TO LORD BYRON. BYRON ! 'twas thine alone on eagle's pinions, In solitary strength and grandeur soaring, To dazzle and delight all eyes, out-pouring The electric blaze on tyrants and their minions; Earth, sea arid air, and Powers and Dominions, Nature—man--time—the universe exploring, And from the wreck of worlds, thrones, creeds, opinions, Thought, beauty, eloquence, and wisdom storing. " ! how I love and envy thee thy glory ! To every age and clime alike belonging ; Linked by all tongues with every nation's story, Thou TACITUS of song!—whose echoes thronging O'er the Atlantic, fill the mountains hoary And forests with a name which thus I'm wronging.
