 Bryant Edwards attributes the decrease of the slaves in the West Indies principally to the disproportion of the sexes. But in the present instance, we are constrained to attribute it to another cause, for we find of the """,""" slaves in the sugar islands in  , """,""" were males, and """,""" were females, being very nearly an equal division of the sexes. now, the slaves in Virginia multiply more rapidly than in most of the Southern States; the Virginians can raise cheaper than they can buy ; in fact, it is one of their greatest sources of profit. In many of the other slaveholding States, this is not the case, and consequently, the same care is not taken to encourage matrimony and the rearing of children. For a similar reason, in ancient times, few slaves were reared in populous districts and large towns, these being supplied with slaves raised at a distance or taken in war, at a cheaper rate than they could be raised. "The comparison is shocking," says Mr. Hume, " between the management of human beings and that of cattle ; but being extremely just when applied to the present subject, it may be proper to trace the consequences of it. At the capital, near all great cities, in all populous, rich, industrious provinces, few cattle are bred. Provisions, lodging, attendance, labor, are there dear, and men find their accounts better in buying the cattle after they come to a certain age, from the remote and cheaper countries.. These are, consequently, the only breeding countries for cattle ; and by parity of reason for men too, when the latter are put on the same footing with the former, as to buying and selling. To rear a child in London till be could be serviceable, would cost much dearer than to buy one of the same age from Scotland or Ireland, where he had been bred in a cottage, covered with rags, and fed on oatmeal and potatoes. Those who had slaves, therefore, (in ancient times,) in all the richer and more populous countries, would discourage the pregnancy of the females, and either prevent or destroy the birth.* . . A perpetual recruit was, therefore, wanted from the poorer * Such means as " the last mentioned, will never be resorted to by any civilized nation of modern times, either in Europe or America ; but others of a less objectionable character most certainly will be, whenever the rearing of slaves entails a great expense on the master and more desert provinces.	. . . All ancient authors tell us that there was a perpetual flux of slaves to Italy from the remoter provinces, particularly Syria, Cilicia, Cappadocia, and the lesser Asia, Thrace and Egypt. Yet the number of people did not increase in Italy."f It is thus we see everywhere, that the spring of population accommodates itself to the demand for human beings, and becomes inert or active in proportion to the value of the laborer and the small or great expense of rearing him. It was upon this very principle that Mr. Pitt, in , based the masterly and unanswerable argument contained in his splendid speech on the abolition of the slave trade ; in which he proved, upon data furnished by the West India planters themselves, that the moment an end was put to slave trade, the natural increase of negroes would commence, and more than keep up their numbers in the islands. But our opponents, perhaps, may be disposed to answer, that this increase of slavery from the stimulus to the black population afforded by the colonization abroad, ought not to be objected to on our own principles, since each slave will be worth two hundred dollars or more. This answer would be correct enough if it were not that the increase of the blacks is effected at our expense, both as to wealth and numbers ; and to show this, we will now proceed to point out the operation of the scheme under consideration upon the white population. Malthus has clearly shown that population depends on the means of subsistence, and will, under ordinary circumstances, increase to a level with them. Now, by means of subsistence, we must not only comprehend the necessaries of life, such as laves in a day have often been sold for the use of the Romans at Delos, in Cilicia."—Strabo, Lib. t See flume's Essays, part "d, essay ""th, on Populousness of Ancient Empires. food, clothing, shelter, &c., but likewise such conveniences, comforts, and even luxuries, as the habits of the society may render it essential for all to enjoy. Whatever, then, has a tendency to destroy the wealth and diminish the aggregate capital of society, has the effect, as long as the standard of comfort* remains the same, to check the progress of the population. It is sure to discourage matrimony and cause children to be less carefully attended to, and to be less abundantly supplied. The heavy burthens which have hitherto been imposed on Virginia, through the operation of the federal exactions, together with the high standard of comfort prevalent through- out the whole State, (about which we shall, by and by, make a few observations,) have already imposed checks upon the progress of the white population of the State. If not one single individual were to emigrate from the State of Virginia, it would be found, so inert has become the principle of increase in the State, that the population would not advance with the average rapidity of the American people. Now, under these circumstances, an imposition of an additional burthen of $",""",""" for the purpose of purchase and de- portation of slaves, would add so much to the taxes of the citizens—would subtract so much from the capital of the State, and increase so greatly the embarrassments of the whole population, that fewer persons would be enabled to support families, and consequently to get married. This great tax, added to those we are already suffering under, would weigh like an incubus upon the whole State—it would operate like the blighting hand of Providence that should render our soil barren and our labor unproductive It would * By standard of comfort, we mean that amount of necessaries, conveniences, luxuries, which the habits of any people render essential to them. diminish the value of the fee simple of Virginia, and not only check the natural increase of population within the Commonwealth, but would make every man desirous of quitting the scenes of his home and his infancy, and fleeing from the heavy burthen which would forever keep him and his children buried in the depths of poverty. His sale of negroes would partly enable him to emigrate ; and we have little doubt, that whenever this wild scheme shall be seriously commenced, it will Be found that more whites than negroes will be banished by its operation from the State. And there will be this lamentable difference between those who are left behind: a powerful stimulus will be given to the procreative energies of the blacks, while those of the whites will be paralyzed and destroyed. Every emigrant from among the whites will create a vacuum not to be supplied—every removal of a black will stimulate the generation of another. " Ijno avulso non deficit alter." The poverty stricken master would rejoice in the prolificness of his female slave, but pray Heaven in its kindness to strike with barrenness his own spouse, lest, in the plenitude of his misfortunes, brought on by the wild and quixotic philanthropy of his government, he might see around him a numerous offspring unprovided for, and destined to galling indigence. It is almost useless to inquire whether this deportation of slaves to Africa would, as some seem most strangely to anticipate, invite the whites of other States into the Commonwealth. Who would be disposed to enter a State with worn out soil, and a black population mortgaged to the payment of millions per annum, for the purpose of emancipation and deportation, when in the West the most luxuriant soils, unin- cumbered with heavy exactions, could be purchased for the paltry sum of $" "" per acre ? Where, then, is that multitude of whites to come from, which the glowing fancy of orators has sketched out as flowing into and filling up the vacuum created by the removal of slaves? The fact is, throughout the whole debate in the Virginia Legislature, the speakers seemed to consider the increase of population as a sort of fixed quantity, which would remain the same under the endless change of circumstance, and consequently that every man exported from among the blacks, lessened pro tanto exactly the black population, and that the whites, moving on with their usual speed, would fill the void ; which certainly was an erroneous supposition, and manifested an almost unpardonable inattention to the wonderful elasticity of the powerful spring of population. The removal of inhabitants, accompanied with great loss of productive labor and capital, so far from leaving the residue in a better situation, and disposing them to increase and multiply, produces the directly opposite effect ; it deteriorates the condition of society, and deadens the spring of population. It is curious to look to the history of the world, and see how completely this position is sustained by facts. Since the downfall of the Roman Empire, there have been three forced emigrations of very considerable extent, from three of the countries of Europe. The Moors were expelled from Spain, the Protestants from the Netherlands, and the Huguenots from France ; each of these expulsions came well nigh ruining the country from which it took place. We are best acquainted with the effects of the expulsions of the Huguenots from France, because it happened nearer to our own times, during the reign of Louis XIV. In this case, only """,""" are supposed to have left France, containing then a population of "" or "",""",""" of souls. The energies of this mighty country seemed at once paralyzed by this emigration, her prosperity was instantly arrested, her remaining population lost the vigor which characterised them as long as this leaven was among them, and to this day France has not recovered from the tremendous blow. Her inferiority to England in industry and all the useful arts, is in a great measure to be traced back to this stupid intolerance of her great monarch Louis XIV. The reason why these expulsions were so very injurious to the countries in question, was because the emigrants were the laboring classes of society, and their banishment consequently dried up the sources of production, and lessened the aggregate wealth and capital of the people. Now, these expulsions are nothing in comparison with that contemplated by our abolitionists. In France, only one in fifty of the population was expelled, and no expense was incurred in the deportation ; but, in Virginia, the proportion to be expelled is much greater, and the ex- ense is to devolve on the government. When the emigration is accompanied with no loss of capital to the State, and no abstraction of productive labor, then the population will not be injuriously affected, but sometimes greatly benefitted. In the hunting state, the expulsion of half of the tribe would benefit the remainder in a politico-economical light, because they live on the game of the forest, which becomes more abundant as soon as the consumers diminish. Pastoral nations, for a like reason, are rarely injured by emigration, for they live on cattle, and the cattle live on the spontaneous produce of the earth, and when a colony is sent off, the remainder will generally be benefitted, since the consumption is relieved while the production is not diminished. And this satisfactorily explains the difficulty which has so much puzzled historians ; how the North of Europe, which Gibbon, Hume, and Robertson, all maintain was in a pastoral state, and not nearly so thickly settled as at present, should never- theless have been able for several centuries to furnish those terrible swarms of barbarians, who, "gathering fresh darkness and terror" as they rolled on upon the south, at length, with their congregated multitudes, " obscured the sun of Italy, and sunk the Roman world in night." This example of the barbarians in the north of Europe, sending so many hundreds of thousands of emigrants to the south, is a beautiful illustration of the capacity of population to counteract the effects of emigration, in all those cases where the spring of population is not weakened. As soon as new swarms left the country, the means of subsistence were more ample for the residue ; the vigor of population soon supplied the deficiency ; and then another swarm went forth and relieved again the national hive. Our purchase and deportation of slaves would produce a similar effect on our blacks, but it would be entirely at the expense of both the numbers and wealth of the whites, and would be, therefore, one of the most blighting curses that could scathe the land. Ireland, at present, is suffering heavy afflictions from an overcrowded population ; but her government could not relieve her by sending off the paupers, and for the simple reason that it would require an expense on the part of Ireland, which would produce as great or even greater abstraction of capital than of unproductive mouths, and would, moreover, give more vigor to the spring of population. If other nations would incur the expense for her, then perhaps there might be for her a temporary benefit ; but in a short time such a stimulus would be given to population, as would counteract all the vain efforts of man, and in the end, leave her in a worse condition than before. We doubt whether England, France, and Germany, by a steady concentration of all their financial resources upon the deportation and comfortable settlement and support of the superabundant population of Ireland, would, at the expiration of fifty years, be found to have lessened the numbers by one single individual. The effect would merely be, to pledge the resources of these three nations to the support of the Irish population, and to substitute the procreation of Irishmen for that of Englishmen, Frenchmen, and Germans ; and as soon as this support was withdrawn, the very habits which had been generated by it in Ireland, would be its greatest curse. The only effectual means of relieving Ireland, will be to raise the standard of comfort in that country, and to arrest the population by the preventive checks which would lessen the marriages. Until this be done, in some way or other, Ireland is doomed to suffer the heavy penalty. We are now prepared to explain how it is that so many negroes have been exported from Africa by the slave trade, while the gap, says Franklin, is almost imperceptible. Gen. Broadnax, in his speech, computes the average number now annually sent out from Africa, by the operation of the slave trade, to be """,""" ; and, he adds, if all this can be effected against so many risks and hazards, and in violation of the laws of God and man, shall it be said that the whole State of Virginia cannot export ",""" to Africa in a year ? Yes, strange as it may seem, this is all true ; and the simple reason of the great difference is that Africa incurs no expense, but on the contrary, generally receives a full equivalent for the deported slave, which augments her means of subsistence, and stimulates the spring of population. The slave trade, which takes off """,""" human beings from Africa, for the slave markets of the West Indies and South America, has, by its operation, quickened the procreative powers of society in Africa to such an extent, as not only to keep up her numbers, but to furnish besides """,""" souls for exportation. Could we suppose it possible for this slave trade to be annihilated at a blow ; repugnant and shocking as it is to every feeling of on* humanity, it would be found that its sudden cessation would plunge the whole of Western Africa, for a season, into the most dreadful anarchy and appalling distress. It would be found that the habits of the people had been formed to suit the slave trade, and accordingly, would be much too favorable to the rapid increase of population without that trade—prisoners of war would be slaughtered, infants murdered, marriages discouraged, and swarms of redundant citizens sent forth to ravage neighboring countries ; and all this would arise from the too rapid increase of population, for the means of subsistence, caused by the sudden stopping of the slave trade. It will be thus seen, that the """,""" annually sent off from Africa, are a source of profit and not of expenditure. Saddle Africa with the whole of this burthen, and we are perfectly sure that the entire resources of that immense continent would not suffice to purchase up, send og and colonize ",""" per annum. There is the same difference between this exportation from Africa, and that proposed by the abolitionists from Virginia, that there is between the agriculturist who sends his produce to a foreign state or country, and receives back a full equivalent, and him who is condemned to send his abroad at his own expense, and to distribute it gratuitously. We imagine that no one who was acquainted with the condition of these two farmers would wonder that one should grow wealthy, and the other miserably poor. The ",""" slaves which Virginia annually sends off to the South are a source of wealth to Virginia ; but the ",""" or ",""" whites who probably go to the West, are a source of poverty ; because, in the former case, we have an equivalent left in the place of the exported slave—in the latter, wo lose both labor and capital, without an equivalent ; and precisely such a result in a much more aggravated form, will spring from this mad colonization scheme, should it ever be carried into ope- ration. If the governments of Europe were silly enough to appropriate their resources to the purchase of our slaves, at their full marketable value, for the purpose of deportation, they should, for aught that we could do, have every one that they could buy. An equivalent would thus be left for the deported slave, and however much others might suffer for their folly, we should escape.* Against most of the great difficulties attendant on the plan of emancipation above examined, it was impossible for the abolitionists entirely to close their eyes ; and it is really curious to pause a moment and examine some of the reflections and schemes by which Virginia was to be reconciled to the plan. We have been told that it would not be necessary to purchase all the slaves sent away—that many would be surrendered by their owners without an equivalent. "There are a number of slaveholders," said one who has all the lofty feeling and devoted patriotism which have hitherto so proudly characterized Virginia, " at this very time, I do not speak from vain conjecture, but from what I know from the best information, and this number would continue to increase, who would voluntarily surrender their slaves, if the State would provide the means of colonizing them elsewhere. And there would be again another class, I have already heard of many, while they could not afford to sacrifice the entire value of their slaves, would cheerfully compromise with the State for half their value." In the first place, we would remark, that the gentleman's anticipation would certainly prove delusive- 	Perhaps one of the greatest blessings (if it could be reconciled to our conscience,) which could be conferred on the Southern portion of the Union, would arise from the total abolition of the African slave trade, and the opening of the West India and South American markets to our slaves. We do not believe that deportation to any other, or in any other way, can ever effect the slightest diminution. the surrender of a very few slaves would enhance the importance and value of the residue, and make the owner much more reluctant to part with them. Let any farmer in Lower Virginia ask himself how many he can spare from his plantation—and he will be surprised to see how few can be dispensed with. If that intelligent gentleman, from the storehouse of his knowledge, would but call up the history of the past, he would see that mere philanthropy, with all her splendid boastings, has never yet accomplished one great scheme ; he would find the remark of that great judge of human nature, the illustrious author of the " Wealth of Nations," that no people had the generosity to liberate their slaves, until it became their interest to do so, but too true ; and the philosophic page of Hume, Robertson, Stuart, and Sismondi, would inform him that the serfs of Europe have been only gradually emancipated through the operation of self-interest, and not philanthropy ; and we shall soon see that it was fortunate for both parties that this was the case. But it is strange, indeed, that gentlemen have never reflected, that the pecuniary loss to the State will be precisely the same, whether the negroes be purchased or gratuitously surrendered. In the latter case, the burthen is only shifted from the whole State to that portion where the surrender is made —thus, if we own $"",""" worth of this property, and surrender the whole to government, it is evident that we lose the amount of $"",""" ; and if the whole of Lower Virginia could at once be induced to give up all of this property, and it could be sent away, the only effect of this generosity and self-devotion would be to inflict the blow of desolation more exclusively on this portion of the State—the aggregate loss would be the same, the burthen would only be shifted from the whole to a part—the West would dodge the blow, and perhaps every candid citizen of Lower Virginia would confess that he is devoid of that refined incomprehensible patriotism which would call for self-immolation on the shrine of folly, and would most conscientiously advise the Eastern Virginians never to surrender their slaves to the government without a fair equivalent. Can it be genuine philanthropy to persuade them alone to step forward and bear the whole burden f Again : some have attempted to evade the difficulties by seizing on the increase of the negroes after a certain time. Thus, Mr. Randolph's plan proposed that all born after the year  , should be raised by their masters to the age of eighteen for the female, and twenty-one for the male, and then hired out, until the neat sum arising therefrom amounted to enough to send them away. Scarcely any one in the Legislature—we believe not even the author himself—entirely approved of this plan.* It is obnoxious to the objections we have just been stating against voluntary surrender. It proposes to saddle the slaveholder with the whole burthen ; it infringes directly the rights of property ; it converts the fee simple possession of this kind of property into an estate for years ; and it only puts off the great sacrifice required of the State to  , when most of the evils will occur that have already been described.	In the meantime, it destroys the value of slaves, and with it all landed possessions—checks the productions of the State, imposes (when   arrives) upon the master the intolerable and grievious burthen of raising his young slaves to the ages of eighteen and twenty-one, and then liberating them to be hired out under the superintendence of government, (the most miserable of all managers,) until the proceeds arising therefrom shall be sufficient to send 	The difficulty of falling upon any definite plan which can for a moment command the approbation of even a few of the most intelligent abolitionists, is an unerring symptom of the difficulty and impracticability of the whole. them away. If any man, at all conversant with political economy, should ever anticipate the day when this shall happen, we can only say that his faith is great indeed, enough to remove mountains, and that he has studied in a totally different school from ourselves. Let us ask, in the language of one of Virginia's most cherished statesmen, who has stood by and defended with so much zeal and ability the interests of Lower Virginia—and who shone forth one of the brightest stars in that constellation of talent which met together in the Virginia Convention—" Is it supposed that any tyranny can subdue us to the patient endurance of such a state of things? Every prudent slaveholder in the slaveholding part of the State, would either migrate with his slaves to some State where his rights in slave property would be secured to him by the laws, or would surrender at once his rights in the parent stock as well as in their future increase, and seek some land where he may enjoy at least the earnings of his own industry. In the first case, the country would be deserted ; in the other, it would bo abandoned to the slaves, to be cultivated under the management of the State. The plan would result in a sacrifice, more probably an abandonment, of our landed, as well as the abolition of our slave property. Can any thing but force—can any force tame us to wrongs like these?" Again ; we entirely agree with the assertion of Mr. Brown, one of the ablest and most promising of Virginia's sons, that the ingenuity of man, if exerted for the purpose, could not devise a more efficient mode of producing discontent among our slaves, and thus endangering the peace of the community. There are born annually of this population about "",""" children. Those which are born before the year   are to be slaves ; those which are born after that period to be free at a certain age. These two classes will be reared together ; * Letters of Appomattox to the people of Virginia, "st letter, p. "". they will labor together, and commune together. It cannot escape the observation of him who is doomed to servitude, that although of the same color and born of the same parents, a far different destiny awaits his more fortunate brother—as his thoughts again and again revert to the subject, he begins to regard himself as the victim of injustice.	Cheerfulness and contentment will flee from his bosom and the most harmless and happy creature that lives on earth, will be transformed into a dark, designing and desperate rebel.—(Brown's Speech, pp. ", ".) There are some again who exhaust their ingenuity in devising schemes fiir taking off the breeding portion of the slaves to Africa, or carrying. away the sexes in such disproportions as will, in a measure, prevent those left behind from breeding. All of these plans merit nothing more than the appellation of vain juggling legislative conceits, unworthy of a statesman and a moral man. If our slaves are ever to be sent away in any systematic manner, humanity demands that they should be carried in families. The voice of the world would condemn Virginia if she sanctioned any plan of deportation by n hid' the male and female, husband and wife, parent and child, were systematically and relentlessly separated. If we are to indulge in this kind of regulating vice, why not cure the ill at once, by following the counsel of Xenophon in his Economics, and the practice of old Cato the Censor f Let us keep the male and female separated* in ergastula or dungeons, if it be necessary, and then one generation will pass away, and the evil will be removed to the heart's content of our humane philanthropists ! But all these puerile conceits * See Hume's Essay on the Populousness of Ancient Nations, where be ascribes this practice of Cato and others, to prevent their slaves from breeding. fall far short of surmounting the great difficulty which, like Memnon, is eternally present and cannot be removed. " Sedet eternumque sedebit," There is slave property of the value of $""",""",""" in the State of Virginia, &c., and it matters but little how you destroy it, whether by the slow process of the cautious practitioner, or with the frightful despatch of the self-confident quack ; when it is gone, no matter how, the deed will be done, and Virginia will be a desert. We shall now proceed to examine briefly, the most dangerous of all the wild doctrines advanced by the abolitionists in the Virginia Legislature, and the one which, no doubt, will be finally acted upon, if ever this business of emancipation shall be seriously commenced. It was contended that property is the creature of civil society, and is subject to action, even to destruction. But lest we may misrepresent, we will give the language of the gentleman who first boldly and exultingly announced it. " My views are briefly these," said Mr. Faulkner ; " they go to the foundation upon which the social edifice rests—property is the creature of civil society. So long as that property is not dangerous to the good order of society, it may and will be tolerated. But, sir, so soon as it is ascertained to jeopardize the peace, the happiness, the good order, nay the very existence of society, from that moment the right by which they hold their property is gone, society ceases to give its consent, the condition upon which they are permitted to hold it is violated, their right ceases. Why, sir, it is ever a rule of municipal law, and we use this merely as an illustration of the great principles of society, sic utere tuo ut alienum non lcedas. So hold your property as not to injure the property, still less the lives and happiness, of your neighbors. And the moment, even in the best regulated communities, there is in practice a departure from this principle, you may abate the nuisance. It may cause loss, but it is what our black letter gentlemen term damnum absexue injuria, a loss of which the law affords no remedy." Now, for the application of these principles : " Sir, to contend that full value shall be paid for the slaves by the commonwealth, now, or at any future period of their emancipation, is to deny all right of action upon this subject whatsoever. It is not within the financial ability of a State to purchase them. We have not the means—the utmost extremity of taxation would fall short of an adequate treasury. What then shall be done I We must endeavor to ascertain some middle ground of compromise between the rights of the community and the rights of individuals, some scheme which, while it responds to the demands of the people for the extermination of the alarming evils, will not in its operations disconcert the settled institutions of society, or evolve the slaveholder in pecuniary ruin and embarrassment." (Faulkner's Speech, pp. "", "", "".) To these doctrines we call the serious attention of the whole slaveholding population of our Union, for all alike are concerned. It is time, indeed, for Achilles to rise from his inglorious repose and buckle on his armor, when the enemy are about to set fire to the fleet. This doctrine, absurd as it may seem, in the practical application made by the epeaker, will be sure to become the most popular with those abolitionists in Virginia, who have no slave property to sacrifice. It is the remark of Hobbes, that men might easily be brought to deny that " things equal to the same are equal to each other," if their fancied interests were opposed in any way to the admission of the axiom. We find that the highly obnoxious doctrine just spoken of, was not entertained by the gentleman "" from Berkeley alone, but was urged to an equally offensive extent by Mr. M'Dowell, who is supposed by his friends to have made the most able and eloquent speech in favor of abolition.	Ho says, " when it (property) loses its utility, when it no longer contributes to the personal benefits and wants of its holders in any equal degree with the expense or the risk, or the danger of keeping it, much more when it jeopards the security of the public,—when this is the case, then the original purpose for which it is authorized is lost, its character of property in the just and beneficial sense of it is gone, and it may be regulated without private injustice, in any manner which the general good of the community, by whose laws it was licensed, may require." (M'Dowell's Speech, see Richmond Whig, ""th March,  .) It is thus, if we may borrow the justly indignant language of Mr. Goode's eloquent and forcible speech, that "our property has been compared to a nuisance which the commonwealth may abate at pleasure. A nation of souls to be abated by the mere effort of the will of the General Assembly. A nation of freemen to hold their property by the precarious tenure of the precarious will of the General Assembly ! and to reconcile us to our condition, we are assured by the gentleman from Berkeley, that the General Assembly, in the abundance of its liberality, is ready to enter into a compromise, by which we shall be permitted to hold our own property twenty eight years ! on condition that we then surrender it absolutely and unconditionally. Sir, I cannot but admire the frankness with which these gentlemen have treated this subject. They have exhibited themselves in the fullness of their intentions ; given us warning of their designs ; and we now see in all its nakedness the vanity of all hope of compensation." (Goode's Speech, p. "".) The doctrine of these gentlemen, so far from being true in its application, is not true in theory. The great object of government is the protection of property ;—from the days of the patriarchs down to the present time, the great desideratum has been to find out the most efficient mode of protecting property. There is not a government at this moment in Christen- dom, whose peculiar practical character is not the result of the state of property. No government can exist which does not conform to the state of property ; it cannot make the latter conform entirely to the government ; an attempt to do it would and ought to revolutionize any state. The great difficulty in forming the government of any country arises almost universally from the state of property, and the necessity of making it to conform to that state ; and it was the state of property in Virginia which really constituted the whole difficulty in the late Convention. There is a right which these gentlemen seem likewise to have had in their minds, which writers on the law of nations call the right of eminent or transcendental domain ; that right by which, in an exigency, the government or its agents may seize on persons or property, to be used for the general weal. Now, upon this there are two suggestions which at once present themselves. First, that this right only occurs in cases of real exigency ;* and secondly, that the writers on the national law—and the constitution of the United States expressly sanctions the principle—say, that no property can be thus taken without full and fair compensation.f 	It is, then, the right of necessity, and may be defined that right which authorizes the performance of an act absolutely necessary for the discharge of an indisputable duty. But private property must always be paid for. t The Congress of the United States, in the case of Marigny d'Anterive, placed slave property upon precisely the same footing, in this respect, with all other kinds. These gentlemen, we hope to prove conclusively before finishing, have failed to show the exigency ; and even if they have proved that, they deny the right of compensation, and upon what principle f why, that the whole State is not competent to afford it, and may therefore justly abate the nuisance. And is it possible that a burthen, in this Christian land, is most unfeelingly and remorselessly to be imposed upon a portion of the State, which, by the very confession of the gentlemen who urge it, could not be borne by the whole without inevitable ruin I But it was the main object of their speeches to show, that slave property is valueless, that it is a burthen, a nuisance to the owner ; and they seemed most anxious to enlighten the poor ignorant farmers on this point, who hold on with such pertinacity to this kind of property, which is inflicting its bitterest sting upon them. Now, is it not enough for the slaveholder to reply, that the circumstance of the slave bearing the price of two hundred dollars in the market, is an evidence of his value with every one acquainted with the elements of political economy ; that, generally speaking, the market value of the slave is even less than his real value ; for no one would like to own and manage slaves unless equally or more profitable than other kinds of investments in the same community ; and, if this or that owner may be pointed out as ruined by this species of property, might we not point to merchants, mechanics, lawyers, doctors, and divines, all of whom have been ruined by their several pursuits ; and must all these employments be abated as nuisances to satisfy the crude, undigested theories of tampering legislators " It is remarkable," we quote the language of the author of the Letters of Appomattox, " that this nuisance' is more offensive in a direct ratio to its distance from the complaining party, and in an inverse ratio to the quantity of offending matter in his neighborhood ; that a magaine of gun-powder' in the town of Norfolk is a nuisance' to the county of Berkeley, and to all the people of the West ! The people of the West, in which there are comparatively few slaves, in which there never can be any great increase of that kind of property, because their agriculture does not require it, and because in a great part of their country the negro race cannot be acclimated—the people of the West find our slave property in our planting country, where it is valuable, a 'nuisance' to them. This reverses the proverb, that men bear the ills of others better than their own. I have known men to sell their slave property and vest the proceeds in the stocks, and become zealous for the abolition of slavery. And it would be a matter of curiosity to ascertain (if it could be done) the aggregate number of slaves, held by all the orators and all the printers who are so willing to abate the nuisance of slave property held by other people. I suspect the census would be very short." Letters of Appomattox to the people of Virginia. The fact is, it is always a most delicate and dangerous task for one set of people to legislate for another, without any community of interest. It is sure to destroy the great principle of responsibility, and in the end to lay the weaker interest at the mercy of the stronger. It subverts the very end for which all governments are established, and becomes intolerable, and consequently against the fundamental rights of man, whether prohibited by the constitution or not. If a convention of the whole State of Virginia were called, and in due form the right of slave property were abolished by the votes of Western Virginia alone, does any one think that Eastern Virginia would be bound to yield to the decree I Certainly not. The strong and unjust man in a state of nature robs the weaker, and you establish government to prevent this oppression. Now, only sanction the doctrine of Virginia orators, let one interest in the government (the West) nnft rob another at pleasure (the East) ; and is there any man who can fail to see that government is systematically producing that very oppression for which it is intended to remedy, and for which alone it is established ? In forming the late Constitution of Virginia, the East objected to the " white basis principle," upon the very grounds that it would enable Western to oppress Eastern Virginia, through the medium of slave property. The most solemn asseverations of a total unwillingness, on the part of the West, to meddle with or touch the slave population, beyond the rightful and equitable demands of revenue, were repeatedly made by their orators. And now, what has the lapse of two short years developed *I Why, that the West, unmindful of former professions, and regard less of the eternal principles of justice, is urging on an invasion and final abolition of that kind of property which it was solemnly pledged to protect ! Is it possible that gentlemen can have reflected upon the consequences which even the avowal of such doctrines are calculated to produce I Are they conciliatory I Can they be taken kindly by the East f Is it not degrading for freemen to stand quailing with the fear of losing that property which they have been accumulating for ages, to stand waiting in fearful anxiety for the capricious edict of the West, which may say to one man, "Sir, you must give up your property, although you have amassed it under the guarantee of the laws and constitution of your State and of the United States ;" and to another, who is near him, and has an equal amount of property of a different description, and has no more virtue and no more conscience than the slaveholder, "you may hold yours, because we do not yet consider it a nuisance' ?" This is language which cannot fail to awaken the people to a sense of their danger. These doctrines, whenever announced in debate, have a tendency to disorganize and unhinge the condition of society, and to produce uncertainty and alarm ;* to create revulsions of capital ; to cause the land of Old Virginia, and real source of wealth, to be abandoned; and her white wealthy population to flee the State, and seek an asylum in a land where they will be protected in the enjoyment of the fruits of their industry. In fine, we would say, these doctrines are 'nuisances,' and if we were disposed to retaliate, would add that they ought to be abated' We will close our remarks on this dangerous doctrine, by calling upon Western Virginia and the non-slaveholders of Eastern Virginia, not to be allured by the ayren song. It is as delusive as it may appear fascinating ; all the sources of wealth and departments of industry, all the great interests of society, are really interwoven with one another—they form an indissoluble chain ; a blow at any part quickly vibrates through the whole length—the destruction of one interest involves another. Destroy agriculture, destroy tillage, and the ruin of the farmer will draw down ruin upon the mechanic, the merchant, the sailor and the manufacturer—they must all flee together from the land of desolation. We hope we have now satisfactorily proved the impracticability of sending off the whole of our slave population, or even the annual increase ; and we think we have been enabled to do this, by pointing out only one-half the difficulties which attend the scheme. We have so far confined our attention to the expense and difficulty of purchasing the slaves, and sending them across the ocean. We have now to look a little to the recipient or territory to which the blacks are to be sent ; * We look upon these doctrines as calculated to produce precisely the same results as are produced by the government of Turkey, which, by rendering property insecure, has been able to arrest, and permanently to repress, the prosperity of the fairest and most fertile portions of the globe. and if we know any thing of the history and nature of colonization, we shall be completely upheld in the assertion, that the difficulties on this score are just as great and insurmountable as those which we have shown to be attendant on the purchase and deportation. We shall be enabled to prove, if we may use the expression, a double impracticability attendant on all these schemes. The Impossibility of Colonizing the Blacks.—The whole subject of colonization is much more difficult and intricate than is generally imagined, and the difficulties are often very different from what would, on slight reflection, be anticipated. They are of three kinds—physical, moral, and national. The former embraces unhealthy climate or want of proper seasoning ; a difficulty of procuring subsistence and the conveniences of life ; ignorance of the adaptations and character of the soils ; want of habitations, and the necessity of living together in multitudes for the purposes of defence, whilst purposes of agriculture require that they should live as dispersed as possible. The moral difficulties arise from a want of adaptation on the part of the new colonists to their new situation, want of conformity in habits, manners, tempers, and dispositions, producing a heterogeneous mass of population, uncemented and unharmonizing. Lastly, the difficulties of a national character embrace all the causes of altercation and rupture between the colonists and neighboring tribes or nations ; all these dangers, difficulties and hardships, are much greater than generally believed. Every new colony requires the most constant attention, the most cautious and judicious management, in both the number and character of the emigrants, a liberal supply of both capital and provisions, together with a most watchful and paternal government on the part of the mother country, which may defend it against the incur- sions and depredations of warlike or savage neighbors. Hence, the very slow progress made by all colonies in the first settlements. The history of colonization is well calculated of itself to dissipate all the splendid visions which our chimerical philanthropists have indulged, in regard to its efficacy in draining off a redundant or noxious population. The rage for emigration to the New World, discovered by Columbus, was at first very considerable ; the brilliant prospects which were presented to the view of the Spaniards, of realizing fortunes in the abundant mines, and on the rich soils of the islands and the continent, enticed many at first to leave their homes in search of wealth, happiness, and distinction ; and what was the consequence	" The numerous hardships with which the members of infant colonies have to struggle," says Robertson, " the diseases of unwholesome climates, fatal to the constitutions of Europeans ; the difficulty of bringing a country covered with forests into culture ; the want of hands necessary for labor in some provinces, and the slow reward of industry in all, unless where the accidental discovery of mines enriched a few fortunate adventurers, were evils immensely felt and magnified. Discouraged by the view of these, the spirit of migration was so much damped, that sixty years after the discovery of the New World, the number of Spaniards in all its provinces is computed not to have exceeded "",""" !"* Even these few were settled at an expense of life: both to the emigrants and the natives, which is really shocking to the feelings of humanity ; and we cannot peruse the accounts of the conquests of Mexico and Peru, without feeling that the race destroyed was equal, in moral worth at least, to their destroyers. In the settlement of Virginia, begun by Sir Walter Raleigh, 	Robertson's America, vol. ", p. """. and established by Lord Delaware, three attempts completely failed ; nearly half of the first colony was destroyed by the savages, and the rest, consumed and worn down by fatigue and famine, deserted the country and returned home in despair. The second colony was cut off to a man, in a manner unknown ; but they were supposed to have been destroyed by the Indians. The third experienced the same dismal fate ; and the remains of the fourth, after it had been reduced by famine and disease, in the course of six months, from fire hundred to sixty persons, were returning in a famished and desperate condition to England, when they were met in the mouth of the Chesapeake, by Lord Delaware, with a squadron loaded with provisions, and every thing for their relief and defence.* The first puritans and settlers, in like manner, suffered "woes unnumbered,"—nearly half perished by want, scurvy, and the severity of the climate. The attempts to settle New Holland, have presented a melancholy and affecting picture of the extreme hardships which infant colonies have to struggle with, before their produce is even equal to the support of the colonists. The establishment of colonies, too, in the eastern part of the Russian dominions, has been attended with precisely the same difficulties and hardships. After this very brief general review of the history of modem colonization, we will now proceed to examine into the prospects of colonizing our blacks on the coast of Africa, in such numbers as to lessen those left behind. And in the first place we will remark, that almost all countries, especially those in southern and tropical latitudes, are extremely unfavorable to life when first cleared and cultivated. Almost the whole territory of the United States and South America, offer * Malthus on population, given upon the authority of both Burke's and Robertson's Virginia. a conclusive illustration of this fact. We are daily witnessing, in the progress of tillage, in our country, the visitation of diseases of the most destructive kind, over regions hitherto entirely exempt ; our bilious fevers, for example, seem to travel, in a great measure, with the progress of opening, clearing, and draining of the country. Now, when we turn our attention to Africa, on which continent all agree that we must colonize, if at all, we find almost the whole continent possessing an insalubrious climate, under the most favorable circumstances ; and, consequently, we may expect this evil will be enhanced during the incipient stages of society at any given point, while the progress of clearing, draining, and tilling is going forward. All the travellers through Africa agree in their descriptions of the general insalubrity of the climate. Park and Buffon agree in stating, that longevity is very rare among the negroes. At forty they are described as wrinkled and gray haired, and few of them survive the age of fifty-five or sixty. A Shangalla woman, says Bruce, at twenty-two, is more wrinkled and deformed by age, than a European at sixty. This short duration of life is attributable to the climate ; for in looking over the returns of the census in our country, we find a much larger proportional number of cases of longevity among the blacks than the whites. " If accurate registers of mortality," says Malthus, (and no one is more indefatigable in his researches or more capable of drawing accurate conclusions,) " were kept among those nations, (African,) I have little doubt that, including the mortality of wars, one in seventeen or eighteen, at least, dies annually, instead of one in thirty-four or thirty-six, as in the generality of European states."	The sea coast is described as being generally much more unhealthy than the interior. "Perhaps it is on this account chiefly," says Park, "that the interior countries 	See Malthus on Population, Book ", ". ". abound more with inhabitants than- the maritime districts."' The deleterious effects of African climate, are of course mud greater upon those accustomed to different latitudes and nog yet acclimated. It is melancholy, indeed, to peruse the dread ful hardships and unexampled mortality attendant upon those companies which have, from time to time, actuated by the most praiseworthy views, penetrated into the interior of Africa. It is difficult to say, which has presented the most obstacles to the inquisitive traveller, the suspicion and barbarity of the natives, or the dreadful insalubrity of the climate. Now, it is to this continent, the original home of our blacks, to this destructive climate, we propose to send the slave of our country, after the lapse of ages has completely inured him to our colder and more salubrious continent. It is true, that a territory has already been secured for the Colonization Society of this country, which is said to enjoy an unusually healthful climate. Granting that this may be the case, still when we come to examine into the capacity of the purchased territory for the reception of emigrants, we find that it only amounts to about "",""" square miles, not a seventh of the super ices of Virginia. When other sites are fixed upon, we may not, and cannot expect to be so fortunate ; are not the most healthy districts in Africa the most populous, according to Park and all travellers	Will not these comparatively powerful nations, in all probability, relinquish their territory with great reluctance! Will not our lot be consequently cast on barren sands or amid the pestilential atmosphere ; and then what exaggerated tales and false statements must be made, if we would reconcile the poor blacks to a change of country pregnant with their fate! * See Park's Travels in Africa, p. """, New York Edition. But we believe that the very laudable zeal of many conscientious philanthropists has excited an overweening desire to make our colony in Liberia, in every point of view, appear greatly superior to what it is. We know the disposition of all travellers to exaggerate ; we know the benevolent feelings of the human heart, which prompts us to gratify and minister to the desires and sympathies of those around us, and we know that philanthropic schemes, emancipation and colonization societies, now occupy the public mind, and receive the largest share of public applause. Under these circumstances we are not to wonder if coloring should sometimes impair the statements of those who have visited the colony ; for ourselves, we may be too sceptical, but are rather disposed to judge from facts which are acknowledged by all, than from general statements from officers and interested agents. In  , two agents were sent to Africa to survey the coast and make a selection of a suitable situation for a colony ; in their passage home in  , one died. In the same year,  , the Elizabeth was chartered and sent out with three agents and eighty emigrants. All three of the agents and twenty of the emigrants died, a propor- tional mortality greater than in the middle passage, which has so justly shocked the human feelings of mankind, and much greater than that occasioned by that dreadful plague (the Cho- lera) which is now clothing our land in mourning and causing our citizens to flee in every direction to avoid impending de- struction. In the spring of  , four new agents were sent out., of whom one returned sick, one died in August, one in Sep- tember, and we know not what became of the fourth.* It is agreed on all hands, that there is a seasoning necessary, and 	These facts we have stated upon the authority of Mr. Carey, of Philadelphia, who has given us an interesting, but I fear too flattering account of the colony, in a series of letters addressed to the lion. Charles F. Mercer. R" a formidable fever to be encountered, before the colonies can enjoy tolerable health. Mr. Ashmun, who afterwards fell a victim to the climate, insisted that the night air of Liberia was free from all noxious effects ; and yet we find that the emigrants carried by the Valador to Liberia, a year or two since, are said to have fared well, losing only two, in consequence of every precaution having been taken against the night air, while the most dreadful mortality destroyed those of the Carolinian, which went out nearly cotemporaneously with the Valador. The letter of Mr. Reyr olds, marked G, at the conclusion of the Fifteenth Annual Report of the American Colonization Society, instructs us in the proper method of preserving health on the coast of Africa, and in spite of the flattering accounts and assurances of agents and philanthropists, we should be disposed to take warning from these salutary hints. The following are some of them : " "st. On no account to suffer any of the crew to be out of the ship at sunset.' " "d. To have a sail stretched on the windward side of the !maul; and an awning was also provided, which extended over the poop and the whole main deck, to defend the crew from the night air. ""d. The night watch was encouraged to smoke tobacco. ""th. To distribute French brandy to the crew whilst in port, in lieu of rum. (The editor of the report modestly recommends strong coffee.) The crew, on rising, were served with a liberal allowance of strong coffee, before commencing their day's work. " The result was, that the ships on each side of the Cambridge lost the greater part of their crew ; and not one man of' her crew were seriously unwell." (Fifteenth Annual Report, p. "", published in Georgetown,  .) We have said enough to show that the contiguance of Af- rica, and its coasts particularly, are extremely unhealthy—that the natives themselves are not long lived—and that unacclimated foreigners are in most imminent danger- That there may be some healthy points on the sea shore, and salubrious districts in the interior, and that Liberia may be fortunately one of them, we are even willing to admit —but then we know that generally the most insalubrious portion will fall into our possession, because those of an opposite character are already too densely populated to be deserted by the natives and consequently, let us view the subject as we please, we have this mighty evil of unhealthy climate to overcome. We have seen already, in the past history of our colony, that the slightest blunder, in landing on an unhealthy coast, in exposure to a deadly night air, or in neglecting the necessary precautions during the period of acclimating, has proved most frightfully fatal to both black and whites. Suppose now, that instead of the one or two hundred sent by the Colonization Society, Virginia should actually send out six thousand—or if we extend our views to the whole United States, that sixty thousand should be annually exported, accompanied of course by some hundreds of whites, what an awful fatality might we not occasionally expect The chance for blundering would be infinitely increased, and if some ships might fortunately distribute their cargoes with the loss of a few lives, others again might lose all their whites and a fourth or more of the blacks, as we know has already happened; and &though this fatality might arise from blunder or accident, yet would it strike the imagination of men—and that which may be kept comparatively concealed now, would, when the number of emigrants swelled to such multitudes, produce alarm and consternation. We look confidently to the day, if this wild scheme should be persevered in for a few years, when the poor African slave, on bended knee, might implore a remission of that fatal sentence urnsilrl stemA itim fn flies isarA etc	fnrafathara But the fact is, that all climates will prove fatal to emigrants who come out in too treat crowds, whether they are naturally unhealthy or not. One of the greatest attempts at colonization in modern times, was the effort of the French to plant at once "",""" emigrants on the coast of Guiana. The consequence was, that in a very short time "",""" of them lost their lives in all the horrors of despair, ",""" returned to France, the scheme failed, and "",""",""" of francs, says Raynal, were totally lost. Seventy-five thousand christians, says Mr. Eaton in his account of the Turkish empire, were expelled by Russia from the Crimea, and forced to inhabit the country deserted by the Nogai Tartars, and in a few years only ",""u of them remained. In like manner, if ",""", or much morel if "",""" negroes, with careless and filthy habits, were annually sent to Africa, we could not calculate, for the first one or two years, upon less than the death of one-half or perhaps three-fourths ; and, repugnant as the assertion may be to the feelings of benevolence, we have no hesitation in saying, that nothing but a most unparalleled mortality among the emigrants would enable us to support the colony for even a year or two. Aristotle was of opinion, that the keeping of ",""" soldiers in idleness would ruin an empire. If the brilliant anticipations of our colonization friends shall be realized, and the day actually arrives, when "",""", or even ",""" blacks can be annually landed in health upon the cost of Africa, then will the United States, or broken down Virginia, be obliged to support an empire in idleness. "The first establishment of a new colony," says Malthus, "generally presents an instance of a country peopled considerably beyond its actual produce; and the natural consequence seems to be, that this population, if not amply supplied by the mother country, should, at the commencement, be diminished to the level of the first scanty productions, and not begin permanently to increase till the re- maiming numbers had so far cultivated the soil as to make it yield a quantity of food more than sufficient for their own support, and which consequently they could divide with a family. The frequent failures of new colonies tend strongly to show the order of precedence between food and population."* It is for this reason the colonies so slowly advance at first, and it becomes necessary to feed (if we may so express ourselves) with extreme caution, and with limited numbers, in the beginning. But a few additional mouths will render support from the mother country necessary. If this state of things continues for a short time, you make the colony a great pauper establishment, and generate all those habits of idleness and worthlessness which will ever characterize a people dependent on the bounty of others for their subsistence. If Virginia should send out ",""" emigrants to Africa, and much more, if the United States should send out "",""", the whole colony would inevitably perish, if the wealth of the mother country was not exhausted for their supply. Suppose a member in Congress should propose to send out an army of "",""" troops, and maintain them on the coast of Africa ; would not every sensible man see at once that the thing would be impracticable, if even the existence of our country depended upon it ?—it would ruin the greatest empire on the globe—and yet, strange to tell, the philanthropists of Virginia are seriously urging her to attempt that which would every year impose upon her a bur-then proportionally greater than this I If any man will for a moment revert to the history of Liberia, which has been as flourishing or even more flourishing than similar colonies, there will be seen at once enough to convince the sceptical of the truth of this assertion. What says Mr. Ashman, perhaps the most intelligent and most judicious of colonial 	Malthus on Population, vol. ", pp. """, """. ci * agents "" "If rice grew spontaneously," said he, " and covered the country, yet it is possible by sending few or none able to reap and clean it, to starve "",""" helpless children and infirm old people in the midst of plenty. Rice does not grow spontaneously, however; nor can any thing necessary for the subsistence of the human species be procured here without the sweat of the brow. Clothing, tools, and building materials are much dearer here than in America. But send out emigrants, laboring men and their families only, or laborious men and their families, accompanied only with their natural proportion of inefficients ; and with the ordinary blessings of God, you may depend on their causing you a light expense in Liberia," arc. Again, " if such persons, (those who cannot work.) are to be supported by American funds, why not keep 'kern in America, where they can do something by picking cotton and stemming tobacco, towards supporting themselves '" I know that nothing is effectually done in colonizing this country, till the colony's own resources can sustain its own, and a considerable annual increase of population." Here then are statements from one of the most zealous and enthusiastic in the cause of colonization, one who has sacrificed his life in the business, which clearly show, that the Colonization Society, with its very limited means, has ever supplied the colony with emigrants. What then might not be expected from the tremendous action of the State and General Government on this subject they would raise up a pauper establishment, which, we conscientiously believe, would require the disposable wealth of the rest of the world to support, and the thousands of emigrants who would be sent, so far from being laborious men, would be the most idle and worthless of a race, who only desire liberty because they regard it as an exemption from labor and toil. Every man, too, at all conversant with the subject, knows that such alone are the slaves which a kind master will ever consent to sell, to be carried to a distant land. Sixty thousand emigrants per annum to the United States, would even now sink the wages of labor, and embarrass the whole of our industrious classes, although we have at this moment lands capable of supporting millions more when gradually added to our population. The Irish emigrants to Great Britain, have already begun to produce disastrous effects. " I am firmly persuaded," says Mr. McCulloch," that nothing so deeply injurious to the character and habits of our people, has ever occurred, as the late extraordinary influx of Irish laborers. If another bias be not given to the current of emigration, Great Britain will necessarily continue to be a grand outlet for the pauper population of Ireland, nor will the tide of beggary and degradation cease to flow, until the plague of poverty has spread its ravages over both divisions of empire."' Where, then, in the wide world, can we find a fulcrum upon which to place our mighty lever of colonization ? nowhere ! we repeat it, nowhere ! unless we condemn emigrants to absolute starvation. Sir Josiah Childe, who lived in an age of comparative ignorance, could well have instructed our modern philanthropists in the true principles of colonization. " Such as our employment is," says he, "so will our people be ; and if we should imagine we have in England employment but for one hundred people, and we have born and bred (or he might have added brought) amongst us one hundred and fifty—fifty must flee away from us, or starve, or be hanged to prevent it."f And so say we in regard to our colonization ; if our new colony cannot absorb readily more than one or two hundred per annum, and we send them ",""" or "",""", the surplus " must either flee away, or starve, or be 	IleCulloch's Wealth of Nations, "th vol. pp. """, "". Edinburgh Edition. t Sir Josiah Childe's Discourse on Trade. hanged," or be fed by the mother oountry, (which is impossible.) So far we have been attending principally to the difficulties of procuring subsistence ; but the habits and moral character of our slaves prevent others of equal importance and magnitude. Dr. Franklin says that one of the reasons why we see so many fruitless attempts to settle colonies at an immense public and private expense by several of the powers of Europe, is that moral and mechanical habits adapted to the mother country, are frequently not so to the new settled one, and to external events, many of which are unforeseen; that it is to be remarked that none of the English colonies became any way considerable, till the necessary manners were born and grew up in the country. Now with what peculiar and overwhelming force does this remark apply to our colonization of liberated blacks I We are to send out thousands of these, taken from a state of slavery and ignorance, unaccustomed to guide and direct themselves, void of all the attributes of free agents, with dangerous notions of liberty and idleness, to elevate them at once to the condition of freemen, and invest them with the power of governing an empire, which will require more wis- dom, more prudence, and at the same time more firmness, than ever government required before. We are enabled to support our position by a quotation from an eloquent supporter of the American colonization scheme. " Indeed," said the Rev. Mr. Bacon, at the last meeting of the American Colonization Society, " it is something auspicious, that in the earlier stages of our undertaking, there has been a general rush of emigration to the colony. In any single year since Cape Montserado was purchased, the influx of a thousand emigrants might have been fatal to our enterprise. The new-comers into any community must always be a minority, else every arrival is a revolution ; they must be a decided minority, easily absorbed in the system and mingled with the mass, else the community is constantly liable to convulsion. Let "",""" foreigners, rude and ignorant, be landed at once in this district (of Columbia), and what would be the result ? Why you must have an armed force here to keep the peace—so one thousand now landing at once in our colony, might be its ruin."* The fact is, the true and enlightened friends of colonization must reprobate all those chimerical schemes proposing to deport anything like the increase of one State, and more particularly of the whole United States. The difficulty just explained, has already been severely felt in Liberia, though hitherto supplied very scantily with emigrants, and those generally the most exemplary of the free blacks ; thus, in  , it was the decided opinion of Mr. Ashmun, " that for at least two years to come, a much more discriminating selection of settlers must be made, than ever has been—even in the first and second expeditions by the Elizabeth and Nautilus, in   and '"", or that the prosperity of the colony will inevitably and rapidly decline." Now, when to all these difficulties we add the prospect of frequent wars with the natives of Africa,t the great expense we must incur to support the colony, and the anomolous position of Virginia, an itnperium in imperio, holding an empire abroad, we do not see how the whole scheme can be pronounced anything less than a stupendous piece of folly. The progress of the British colony at Sierra Leone is well calculated to illustrate the great diffiCulties of colonizing negroes on the coast of Africa : and we shall at once present our readers with a brief history of this colony, given by one who seems to be a warm advocate of colonization, and, consequently, disposed to present the fact in the most favorable aspect. * See Fifteenth Annual Report of American Colonization Society, p."". t The colony has already had one conflict with the natives, in which On the "th of April,  , """ negroes and "" Europeans sailed from England, supplied with provisions for six or eight muntlis, fur sterna Lcotiv. Now mark the cuuequences :— " The result was unfortunate and even discouraging. The crowded condition of the transports, the unfavorable season at which they arrived on the coast., and the intemperance and imprudence of the emigrants, brought on a mortality which reduced their numbers nearly one-half during the first year. Others deserted soon after landing, until forty individuals only remained. In  , Mr. Sharp sent out "" more, and then a number of the deserters returned, and the settlement gradually gained strength. But during the next year, a controversy with a neighboring native chief, ended in wholly dispersing the colony ; and some time elapsed before the remnants could be again collected. A charter of incorporation was obtained in  . Not long afterwards, about ",""" new emigrants were introduced, being originally refugees from this country, (U. States,) who had placed themselves under British protection. Still, affairs were very badly managed. One-tenth of the Nova Scotians, and half of the Europeans, died during one season, as much from want of provisions as any other cause. Two years afterwards, a store-ship belonging to the company, which had been made the receptacle of African produce, was lost by fire, with a cargo valued at £"",""". Then INSURRECTIONS arose among the blacks	Worst of all, in  , a large French squadron, wholly without provisions, attacked the settlement, and although the colors were immediately struck, proceeded to an indiscriminate pillage.* . . . (Some years) afterwards, a large number of the worst part of * We would beg leave most respectfully to ask our Virginia abolitionistg, how an insult of this character offered to any colony which we might establish in Africa, would be resented I Would the Nation of Virginia declare war on the aggressor ? and if she did, where would be her navy, her sailors, her soldiers, and the constitutionality of the act ? the settlers, chiefly the Nova Scotians, rebelled against the Colonial Government. The Governor called in the assistance of the neighboring African tribes, and matters were on the eve of a battle, when a transport arrived in the harbor, bringing """ Maroons from Jamaica. Lots of land were given to these men ; they proved regular and industrious, and the insurgents laid down their arms. Wars next ensued with the natives, which were not finally concluded until  . On the first January,  , all the rights and possessions of the company were surrendered to the British Crown ; and in this situation they have ever since remained." [See ""th No. of the North American Review, pp. """ and """.] The progress of the colony since  , has been as little flattering as before that period ; and even Mr. Everett, before the Colonization Society in Washington, has been forced to acknowledge its failure. [See Mr. Everett's Speech, ""th Annual Report.] Thus this negro colony at Sierra Leone illustrates, most fully, the fearful and tremendous difficulties which must ever attend every infant colony formed on the coast of Africa. During the brief period of its existence, it has been visited by all the plagues that colonial establishments " are heir to." It has been cursed with the intemperance, imprudence, and desertion of the colonists, with want of homogeneous character, and consequent dissentions, civil wars and insurrections. It has experienced famines, and suffered insult and pillage. Its numbers have been thinned by the blighting climate of Africa. Its government has been wretched, and it has been almost continually engaged in war with the neighboring African tribes.* 	Perhaps it may be said, that all these things may be avoided in our colonies, by wise management and proper caution. To this we answer, that in speculating upon the destiny of multitudes or nations, we must embrace within our calculation all the elements as they ac. Some have supposed that the circumstance of the Africans being removed a stage or two above the savages of North America, will reader the culuaizatiuu of Africa much eabier than that of America. We draw directly the opposite conclusion. The Indians of North America had nowhere taken possession of the soil ; they were wanderers over the face of the country ; their titles could be extinguished for slight considerations ; and it is ever melancholy to reflect that their habits of improvidence and of intoxication, and even their cruel practices in war, have all been (such has been for them the woful march of events) favorable to the rapid increase of the whites, who have thus been enabled to exterminate the red men, and take their places. The natives of Africa exist in the rude agricultural state, much more numerously than the natives of America. Their titles to land will be extinguished with much more difficulty and expense. The very first contact with our colony will carry to them the whole art and implement of war.* As our tually exist., civil, political, moral and physical, and our deductions to be true, must be taken not from the beau ideal which a vivid imagination may sketch out, but from the average of concomitant circumstances. It would be a poor apology which a statesman could offer, for the failure of a certain campaign which he had planned, to say that he had calculated that every officer in the army was a Napoleon or a Cs r, and that every regiment was equal to Caesar's ""th Legion or the Imperial Guard of Napoleon. The physicians say there is not much danger to be apprehended from Cholera, when due caution and prudence are exercised. Yet, we apprehend it would be a very unfair conclusion if we were to assert, that when the Cholera breaks out in Charleston there will not be one single death ; and yet we have just as much right to make this assertion, as to say that our colony in Africa will be free from all the accidents, plagues and calamities, to which all such establishments have ever been subjected. * Powder and fire-arms formed, material items in the purchase of Liberia. colonists spread and press upon them, border wars will arise ; and in vain will the attempt be made to extirpate the African nations, as we have the Indian tribes : every inhabitant of Liberia who is taken prisoner by his enemy, will be consigned according to the universal practice of Africa, to the most wretched slavery, either in Africa or the West- Indies. And what will our colony do I Must they murder, while their enemies enslave I Oh, no, it is too cruel, anti will produce barbarizing and exterminating wars ? Will they spare the prisoners of war I No ! There does not and never will exist a people on earth, who would tamely look on and see their wives, mothers, brothers and sisters, ignominiously enslaved, and not resent the insult. What, then, will be done ? Why, they will be certain to enslave too ; and if domestic slavery should be interdicted in the colony, it would be certain to encourage the slave trade ;* and if we could ever look forward to the time when the slave trade should be destroyed, then the throwing back of this immense current upon Africa would inundate all the countries of that region. It would be like the checking of the emigration from the northern hives upon the Roman world. The northern nations, in consequence of this check, soon experienced all the evils of a redundant population, and broke forth with their redundant numbers in another quarter; both England and France were overrun, and the repose of all Europe was again disturbed. So, would a sudden check to the African slave trade, cause the redundant population of Africa to break in, like the Normans and the Danes, on the abodes of civilization situated in their neighborhood. Let, then, the real philanthropist ponder over these things, and tremble for the fate of colonies which may be imprudently * We fear our colony at Liberia is not entirely free from this stain even now; it is well known that the British colony at Sierra Leone has frequently aided the slave trade. planted on the African soil. The history of the world has too conclusively shown, that two races, differing in manners, customs, language, and civilization, can never harmonize upon a footing of equality. One must rule the other, or exterminating wars must be waged. In the case of the savages of North America, we have been successful in exterminating them ; but in the case of African nations, we do think, from a view of the whole subject, that our colonists will most probably be the victims ; but the alternative is almost equally shocking, should this not be the case. They must then be the exterminators or enslavers of all the nations of Africa with which they come in contact. The whole history of colonization, indeed, presents one of the most gloomy and horrific pictures to the imagination of the genuine philanthropist, which can possibly be conceived. The many Indians who have been murdered, or driven in despair from the haunts and hunting grounds of their fathers—the heathen driven from his heritage, or hurried into the presence of his God in the full blossom of all his heathenish sins—the cruel slaughter of Ashanteesthe murder of Burmese—all, all but too eloquently tell the misery and despair portended by the advance of civilization to the savage and the pagan, whether in America, Africa or Asia. In the very few cases where the work of desolation ceased, and a commingling of races ensued, it has been found that the civilized man has sunk down to the level of barbarism, and there has ended the mighty work of civilization ! Such are the melancholy pictures which sober reason is constrained to draw of the future destinies of our colony in Africa. And what, then, will become of that grand and glorious idea of carrying religion, intelligence, industry, and the arts, to the already wronged and injured African I It is destined to vanish, and prove worse than mere delusion. The rainbow of promise will be swept away, and we shall awake at last to all the sad realities of savage warfare and increasing barbarism. We have thus stated some of the principal difficulties and dangers accompanying a scheme of colonization, upon a scale as large as proposed in the Virginia Legislature. We have said enough to show, that if we ever send off ",""" per annum, we must incur an expense far beyond the purchase money. The expense of deportation to Africa we have estimated at thirty dollars ; but when there is taken into the calculation the further expense of collecting in Virginia,* of feeding, pro- * Even supposing the number of Weeks to be annually deported should ever be fixed by the State, the difficulty of settling upon a proper plan of purchase and collection will be infinitely greater than any man would be willing to admit, who has not seriously reflected on the subject, and the apple of discord will be thrown into the Virginia Legislature the moment it shall ever come to discuss the details. Suppose, for example, six thousand are to be sent off annually ; will you send negro buyers through the country to buy up slaves wherever they can be bought, until six thousand are purchased ! If you do, you will inevitably gather together the very dregs of creation, the most vizious, the most worthless, and the mo'.t idle, for these alone will be sold !—a frightful population, whose multitudes, when gathered together and poured upon the infant settlements in Africa, will be far more destructive than the lava flood from the volcano. Again, some portions of the State might sell cheaper than others, and an undue proportion of slaves would be purchased from these quarters, and cause the system to operate unequally. Will you divide the State into sections, and purchase from each according to black population? Then, what miserable sectional controversies should we have in the State ? What dreadful grumbling in the west? Moreover, the same relative numbers abstracted from a very dense and very sparse population, will produce a very different effect on the labor market. Thus, we will suppose along the margin of the James River, from Richmond to Norfolk, the blacks are twenty for one white, and that in some country beyond the Blue Ridge, this proportion ie reversed. Suppose, further, that a twentieth of the blacks are to be bought up and sent off, this demand will have but a slight effect on the labor market in the country beyond the Ridge, because it calls for only one in four hundred of the population ; whereas the effect should tecting, Arc., in Africa, the amount swells beyond all calculation. Mr. Tazewell, in his able report on the colonization of free people on the African coast, represents this expense as certainly amounting to one hundred dollars; and, judging from actual experience, was disposed to think two hundred dollars would fall below the fair estimate. If the Virginia scheme shall ever be adopted, we have no doubt that both these estimates will fall below the real expense. The annual cost of removing six thousand, instead of being $",""",""", will swell beyond $",""",""",—an expense sufficient to destroy the entire value of the whole property of Virginia. Voltaire, in his Philosophical Dictionary, has said, that such is the inherent and preservative vigor of nations, that governments cannot possibly ruin them ; that almost all governments which have been established in the world had made the attempt, but had failed. If the sage of France had lived in our days, he would have had a receipt furnished by some of our philanthropists, by which this work might have been accomplished ! We read in Holy Writ of one great emigration from the land of Egypt, and the concomitant circumstances should bid us well beware of an imitation, unless assisted by the constant presence of Jehovah. Ten plagues were sent upon the land of Egypt before Pharaoh would consent to part with the Israelites, the productive laborers of his kingdom. But a short time convinced him of the heavy loss which he sustained by be great along the James River, as it would take away one in twenty-one of the population. The slaves, in every section, would command a different price, and we would be obliged to establish our Octroi and Douanier, and tax or prevent the migration of negroes from one section to another. But we will not pursue further the examination of mere details, which do not fall within our original design. It will be discovered from even a slight analysis, that every single branch of this gigantic scheme of folly, like the teeth of the fabled dragon, will bring you forth an armed man to erten your program. their removal, and he gave pursuit ; but God was present with the Israelites. He parted the waters of the Red Sea for their passage, and closed them over the Egyptians. He led on his chosen people through the wilderness, testifying his presence in a pillar of fire by night, and a cloud of smoke by day. He supplied them with manna in their long journey, sending a sufficiency on the sixth for that and the seventh day. When they were thirsty, the rocks poured forth waters, and when they finally arrived in the land of promise, after the loss of a generation, the mysterious will of heaven had doomed the tribes of Canaan to destruction ; fear and apprehension confounded all their counsels ; their battlements sunk down at the trumpet's sound ; the native hosts, under heaven's command, were all slaughtered ; and the children of Israel took possession of the habitations and property of the slaughtered inhabitants. The whole history of this emigration beautifully illustrates the great difficulties and hardships of removal to foreign lands of multitudes of people. And as a citizen of Virginia, we can never consent to so grand a scheme of colonization on the coast of Africa, until it is sanctioned by a decree of heaven, made known by signs, far more intelligible than an eclipse and greenness of the sun—till manna shall be rained down for the subsistence of our black emigrants—till seas shall be parted, and waters flow from rocks for their accommodation—till we shall have a leader like Moses, who, in the full confidence of all his piety and religion, can, in the midst of all the appalling difficulties and calamities by which he may be surrounded, speak forth to his murmuring people, in the language of comfort, " Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will chew to you to-day." But, say some, if Virginia cannot accomplish this work, let us call upon the General Government for aid—let Hercules ""* be requested to put his shoulders to the wheels, and roll us through the formidable quagmire of our difficulties. Delusive prospect ! Corrupting scheme ! We will throw all constitutional difficulties out of view, and ask if the Federal Government can be requested to undertake the expense for Virginia, without encountering it for the whole slaveholding population I And then, whence can be drawn the funds to purchase more than ",""",""" of slaves, worth at the lowest calculation $""",""",""" ; or if the increase alone be sent off, can Congress undertake annually to purchase at least "",""" slaves, at an expense of $"",""",""", and deport and colonize them at an expense of twelve or fifteen millions more I* But the fabled hydra would be more than realized in this project. We have no doubt that if the United States in good faith should enter into the slave markets of the country, determined to purchase up the whole annual increase of our slaves, so unwise a project, by its artificial demand, would immediately produce a rise in this property, throughout the whole southern country, of at least """ per cent. It would stimulate and invigorate the spring of black population, which, by its tremendous action, would set at nought the puny efforts of man, and, like the Grecian matron, unweave in the night what bad been woven in the day. We might well calculate upon an annual increase of at least four and a half per cent,. upon our two millions of slaves, if ever the United States should create the artificial demand which we have just spoken of ; and then, instead of an increase of "",""", there will be "",""", bearing the average price of $""" each,making the enormous annual expense of purchase alone $"",""",""" I and difficulties, too, on the side of the colony, would more than enlarge with the increase 	We must recollect, that the expense of colonizing increases much more rapidly than in proportion to the simple increase of the number of emigrants. of the evil at home. Our Colonization Society has been more than fifteen years at work ; it has purchased, according to its funds, a district of country as congenial to the constitution of the black as any in Africa; it has, as we have seen, frequently over-supplied the colony with emigrants ; and mark the result, for it is worthy of all observation, there now are not more than   or   inhabitants in Liberia! And these are alarmed lest the Southampton insurrection may cause such an emigration as to inundate the colony. When, then, in the lapse of time, can we ever expect to build up a colony which can receive sixty or ninety thousand slaves per annum f And if this should ever arrive, what guarantee could be furnished us that their ports would always be open to our emigrants I Would law or compact answer f Oh, no I Some legislator, in the plenitude of his wisdom, might arise, who could easily and truly persuade his countrymen that these annual importations of blacks were nuisances, and the laws of God, whatever might be those of men, would justify their abatement. And the drama would be wound up in this land of promise and expectation, by turning the cannon's mouth against the liberated emigrant and deluded philanthropist. The scheme of colonizing our blacks on the coast of Africa, or anywhere else, by the United States, is thus seen to be more stupendously absurd than even the Virginia project. King Canute, the Dane, seated on the sea shore, and ordering the rising flood to recede from his royal feet, was not guilty of more vanity and presumption than the Government of the United States would manifest, in the vain effort of removing and colonizing the annual increase of our blacks. So far from being able to remove the whole annual increase every year, we shall not be enabled to send off a number sufficiently great to check even the geometrical rate of increase. Our black population is now producing "",""" per annum, and next year we must add to this sum ",""", which the increment alone is capable of producing, and the year after, the increment upon the increment, &c. Now, let us throw out of view, for a moment, the idea of grappling with the whole annual increase, and see whether by colonization we can expect to turn this geometrical increase into an arithmetical one. We will then take the annual increase, "",""", as our capital, and it will be necessary to send off the increase upon this  , to prevent the geometrical increase of the whole black population. Let us, then, for a moment, inquire whether the abolitionists can expect to realize this petty advantage. Mr. Bacon admits, that ",""" emigrants now thrown on Liberia, would ruin it. We believe that every reflecting sober member of the Colonization Society will acknowledge that """ annually, are fully as many as the colony can now receive. We will assume this number, though no doubt greatly beyond the truth ; and we will admit further, (what we could easily demonstrate to be much too liberal a concession,) that the capacity of the colony for the reception of emigrants may be made to enlarge in a geometrical ratio, equal to that of the rate of increase of the blacks in the United States. Now, with these very liberal concessions on our part, let us examine into the effect of the colonization scheme. At the end of the first year, we shall have for the amount of the "",""", increasing at the rate of three and a half per cent, "","""; and subtracting """, we shall begin the second year with the number of "",""", which, increasing at the rate of three and a half per centum, gives "",""" for the amount at the end of the second year. Proceeding thus, we obtain, at the end of twenty-five years, for the amount of the "",""", """,""". The number taken away, that is the sum of """ + """ X ",""" + """ X ",""", &c., will be "",""". It is thus seen, that in spite of the efforts of the colonization scheme, the bare annual increase of our slaves will produce "",""" more than can be sent off; which number, of course, must be added to the capital of "",""" ; and long, very long, before the colony in Africa, upon our system of calculation, even could receive the increase upon this accumulating capital, its capacity as a recipient would be checked by the limitation of territory, and the rapid filling up of the population, both by emigration and natural increase. And thus, by a simple arithmetical calculation, we may be convinced that the effort to check even the geometrical rate of increase, by sending off the increment upon the annual increase of our slaves, is greatly more than we can accomplish, and must inevitably terminate in disappointment—more than realizing the fable of the frog and the ox ; for in this case we should have the frog swelling, not for the purpose of rivalling the ox in size, but to swallow him down, horns and all ! Seeing, then, that the effort to send away the increase, on even the present increase of our slaves, must be vain and fruitless, how stupendously absurd must be the project, proposing to send off the whole increase, so as to keep down the negro population at its present amount ! There are some things which man, arrayed in all his "brief authority," cannot accomplish, and this is one of them. Colonization schemers, big and busy in the management of all their little machinery, and gravely proposing it as an engine by which our black population may be sent to the now uncongenial home (I their ancestors, across an ocean of thousands of miles in width, but too strongly remind us of the vain man who, in all the pomp and circumstance of power, ordered his servile attendants to stop the rise of ocean's tide, by carrying off its accumulating waters. Emigration has rarely checked the increase of population, by directly lessening its number ; it can only do it by the abstraction of capital, and by paralyzing the spring of population, and then it blights and withers the prosperity of the land. The population of Europe has not been thinned by emigration to the new world—the province of Andalusia, in Spain, which sent out the greatest number of emigrants to the Islands, and to Mex:co and Peru, has been precisely the district in Spain which has increased its population most rapidly. Ireland now sends forth a greater number of emigrants than any other country in the world, and yet the population of Ireland is now increasing faster than any other population of Europe I We hope we have now said enough of these colonization schemes to show that we can never expect to send off our black population, by their means—and we cannot conclude without addressing a word of caution to the generous sons of the Old Dominion. It behooves them well to beware with what intent they look to the Federal Government for aid in the accomplishment of these delusive—these impracticable projects. The guileful tempter of our original parents seduced them with the offer of an apple, which proved their heaviest curse, drove them from the garden of Eden, and destroyed for ever their state of innocence and purity. Let Virginia beware, then, that she be not tempted by the apple, to descend from that lofty eminence which she has hitherto occupied in our confederacy, and sacrifice upon the altar of misconceived interests those pure political principles by which she has hitherto been so proudly characterized. This whole question of emancipation and deportation is but too well calculated to furnish the political lever, by which Virginia is to be prised out of her natural and honorable position in the Union, and made to sacrifice her noble political creed. We have witnessed with feelings of no common kind, the almost suppliant look cast towards the General Government, by some of the orators in the Virginia debate. It has pained us to read speeches, and pamphlets, and newspaper essays, suggesting changes in the constitution, or at once boldly imploring, without such changes, the action of the Federal Government. Unless the sturdy patriots of Virginia stand forth, we fear, indeed, that her noble principles will be swept away by the tide of corruption. The agitation of the slave question in the last Virginia Legislature, has already begun the work, and the consent of Virginia to receive Federal aid in the scheme of emancipation and deportation would complete it. As long as a State relies upon its own resources, and looks to no foreign quarter for aid or support, so long does she place herself without the sphere of temptation, and preserve her political virtue. This is one principal reason why Virginia has produced so many disinterested patriots. We will go furthes. still ; the generous, disinterested and noble character of southern politicians generally, is, in a great measure, attributable to this very cause. The South has hitherto had nothing to ask of the Federal Government—she has been no dependant, no expectant at the door of the Federal Treasury—she has never, therefore, betrayed the interest of the Union, for some paltry benefit to herself. But let her once consent to supplicate the aid of the General Government on this slave question—and that moment will she sacrifice her high political principles, and become a dependant on that government. When Virginia shall consent to receive this boon, her hands will be tied for ever, the emancipating interest will be added to the internal improvement and tariff interests, and Virginia can no more array herself against the torrent of Federal oppression. Hitched to the car of the Federal Government, she will be so ignominiously dragged forward, a conscience-stricken partner in the unholy alliance for oppression ; and in that day, the genuine patriot may well cast a longing, lingering look back to the days of purer principles,, and " sigh for the loss of Eden."' And in this melancholy, saddening retrospect, he will not have the poor consolation left, of seeing his noble State reap the paltry reward, which had so fatally tempted her to an abandonment of her principles. Can any reflecting man, for a moment, believe that the North and West, form- ing the majority of our Confederacy, would ever seriously consent to that enormous expenditure which would be necessary to carry into effect this gigantic colonization scheme—a scheme whose direct operation would be, to take away that very labor, which now bears the burthen of federal exactions —a scheme whose operation would be to dry up the sources of that very revenue, upon which its success entirely depends! Vain and delusive hope ! Not one negro slave will ever be sent away from this country by federal funds—and heaven forbid that they should ; and yet we fear the longing, lingering hope, will corrupt the pure principles of many a deluded patriot We have thus examined fully this scheme of emancipation and deportation, and trust we have satisfactorily shown, that the whole plan is utterly impracticable, requiring an expense and sacrifice of property far beyond the entire resources of the State and Federal Governments. We shall now proceed to inquire, whether we can emancipate our slaves with permission that they remain among us. Emancipation without Deportation.--We candidly confess, that we look upon this last mentioned scheme as much more practicable, and likely to be forced upon us, than the former. We consider it, at the same time, so fraught with danger and mischief both to the whites and blacks—so utterly subversive of the welfare of the slaveholding country, in both an economical and moral point of view, that we cannot, upon any principle of right or expediency, give it our sanction. Almost all the speakers in the Virginia Legislature seemed to think there ought to be no emancipation without deportation. Mr. Clay, too, in his celebrated colonization speech of  , says, " if the question were submitted whether there should be immediate or gradual emancipation of all the slaves in the United States, without their removal or colonization, painful as it is to express the opinion, I have no doubt that it would be unwise to emancipate them. I believe that the aggregate of evils which would be engendered in society, upon the supposition of general emancipation, and of the liberated slaves remaining principally among us, would be greater than all the evils of slavery. great as they unquestionably are." Even the northern philanthropists themselves admit, generally, that there should be no emancipation without removal. Perhaps, then, under these circumstances, we might have been justified in closing our review with a consideration of the colonization scheme ; but as we are anxious to survey this subject fully in all its aspects, and to demonstrate upon every ground the complete justification of the whole southern country in a krther continuance of that system of slavery which has been originated by no fault of theirs, and continued and increased contrary to their most earnest desires and petitions, we have determined briefly to examine this scheme likewise. As we believe the scheme of deportation utterly impracticable, we have come to the conclusion that in the present great question, the real and decisive line of conduct is either abolition without removal, or a steady perseverance in the system now established. " Paltry and timid minds," says the present Lord Chancellor of England on this very subject, "shudder at the thought of mere activity, as cowardly troops tremble at the idea of calmly waiting for the enemy's approach. Both the one and the other hasten their fate by relentless and foolish movements." The ground upon which we shall rest our argument on this subject is, that the slaves, in both an economical and moral point of view, are entirely unfit for a state of freedom among the whites ; and we shall produce such proofs and illustrations of our position, as seem to us perfectly conclusive. That condition of our species from which the most important consequences flow, says Mr. Mill, the Utilitarian, is the necessity of labor for the supply of the fund of our necessaries and conveniences. It is this which influences, perhaps more than any other, even our moral and religious character, and determines more than everything else besides, the social and political state of man. It must enter into the calculations of not only the political economist, but even of the metaphysician, the moralist, the theologian, and politician. We shall, therefore, proceed at once to inquire what effect would be produced upon the slaves of the South in an economical point of view, by emancipation with permission to remain—whether the voluntary labor of the freed-man would be as great as the involuntary labor of the slave	Fortunate- ly for us, this question has been so frequently and fairly subjected to the test of experience, that we are no longer left to vain and fruitless conjecture. Much was said in the Legislature of Virginia about superiority of free labor over slave, and perhaps, under certain circumstances, this might be true ; but, in the present instance, the question is between the relative amounts of labor which may be obtained front slaves before and after their emancipation. Let us, then, first commence with our country, where, it is well known to everybody, that slave labor is vastly more efficient and productive than the labor of free blacks. Taken as a whole class, the latter must be considered the most worthless and indolent of the citizens of the United States. It is well known that throughout the whole extent of our Union, they are looked upon as the very drones and pests of society. Nor does this character arise from the disa- bilities and disfranchisement by which the law attempts to guard against them. In the non-slaveholding States, where they have been more elevated by law, this kind of population is in a worse condition, and much more troublesome to society, than in the slaveholding, and especially in the planting States. Ohio, some years ago, formed a sort of land of promise for this deluded class, to which many have repaired from the slaveholding States,—and what has been the consequence I They have been most harshly expelled from that State, and forced to take refuge in a foreign land. Look through the Northern States, and mark the class upon whom the eye of the police is most steadily and constantly kept—see with what vigilance and care they are hunted down from place to place—and you cannot fail to see that idleness and improvidence are at the root of all their misfortunes. Not only does the experience of our own country illustrate this great fact, but others furnish abundant testimony. " The free negroes," says Brougham, " in the West Indies are, with a very few exceptions, chiefly in the Spanish and Portuguese settlements, equally averse to all sorts of labor which do not contribute to the supply of their immediate and most urgent wants. Improvident and careless of the future, they are not actuated by that principle which inclines more civilized men to equalize their exertions at all times, and to work after the necessaries of the day have been procured, in order to make up for the possible deficiencies of the morrow ; nor has their intercourse with the whites taught them to consider any gratification as worth obtaining, which cannot be produced by slight exertion of desultory and capricious industry."* In the report of the Committee of the Privy Council in Great Britain, in  , the most ample proof of this assertion a Brougiam's Colonial Policy, Book IV., Sec. ". is brought forward. In Jamaica and Barbadoes, it was stated, that free negroes were never known to work for hire, and they have all the vices of the slave. Mr. Braithwait, the agent for Barbadoes, affirmed, that if the slaves in that island were offered their freedom on condition of working for themselves, not one-tenth of them would accept it. In all the other colonies the statements agree most accurately with those collected by the Committee of the Privy Council. "M. Malouet, who bore a special commission from the present government to examine the character and habits of the Maroons in Dutch Guiana, and to determine whether or not they were adapted to become hired laborers, informs us that they will only work one day in the week, which they find abundantly sufficient, in the fertile soil and genial climate of the new world, to supply all the wants that they have yet learnt to feel. The rest of their time is spent in absolute indolence and sloth. repos,' says he, 'et l'oisivete sant devenus dans leur etat social leur unique passion P He gives the very same description of the free negroes in the French colonies, although many of them possessed lands and slaves. The spectacle, he tells us, was never yet exhibited of a free negro supporting his family by the culture of his little property. All other authors agree in giving the same description of free negroes in the British, French and Dutch colonies, by whatever denomination they . may be distinguished, whether Maroons, Caraibes, free blacks, or fugitive slaves. The Abbe Raynald, with all his ridiculous fondness for savages, cannot, in the present instance, solo twist the facts according to his fancies and feelings, as to give a favorable portrait of this degraded race." From these facts, it would require no great sagacity to come to the conclusion, that slave cannot be converted into free labor without imminent danger to the prosperity and wealth 	Brougham's Colonial Policy. of the country where the change takes place—and in thi?particular it matters not what may be the color of the slave. In the commencement of the reign of Charles V., the representations of Las Casas determined Cardinal Ximenes, the prime minister of Charles, to make an experiment of the conversion of slave labor into free, and for this purpose pious commissioners were sent out, attended by Las Casas himself, for the purpose of liberating the Indian slaves in the new world. Now mark the result. These commissioners, chosen from the cloister, and big with real philanthropy, repaired to the Western world intent upon the great work of emancipation. "Their ears," says Robertson, " were open to information from every quarter—they compared the different accounts which they received—and after a mature consideration of the whole, they were fully satisfied that the state of the colony rendered it impossible to adopt the plan proposed by Las Casas, and recommended by the Cardinal. They plainly perceived that no allurement was so powerful as to surmount the natural aversion of the Indians to any laborious effort, and that nothing but the authority of a master could compel them to work ; and if they were not kept constantly under the eye and discipline of a superior, so great were their natural listlessness and indifference, that they would neither attend to religious instruction, nor observe those rights of Christianity which they had been already taught. Upon all these accounts the superintendents found it necessary to tolerate repartimientos, and to suffer the Indians to remain under subjection to their Spanish masters."* In the latter part of his reign, Charles, with most imprudent and fatal decision, proclaimed the immediate and universal emancipation of all the Indians—and precisely what any man of reflection might have anticipated, resulted. Their industry and freedom were found entirely incompatible. The * Robertson's America, vol. ", p. """. alarm was instantaneously spread over the whole Spanish colonies. Peru, for a time lost to the monarchy, was only restored by the repeal of the obnoxious law ; and in New Spain, quiet was only preserved by a combination of the governor and subjects to suspend its execution. During the mad career of the French revolution, the slaves in the French colonies were, for a time, liberated ; and even in Cayenne, where the experiment succeeded best in consequence of the paucity of slaves, it completely demonstrated the superiority of slave over free black labor ; and generally the re-establishment of slavery was attended with the most happy consequences, and even courted by the negroes themselves, who became heartily tired of their short-lived liberty. Of the great experiment which has been recently made in Colombia and Guatemala, we shall presently speak. We believe it has completely proved the same well established fact—the great superiority of slave over free negro labor. Mr. Clarkson, in his pamphlet on slavery, has alluded in terms of high commendation to an experiment made in Barbadoes, on Mr. Steele's plantation, which, he contends, has proved the safety and facility of the transition from slave to free labor. It seems Mr. Steele parcelled out his land among his negroes, and paid them wages for their labor. Now, we invite particularly the attention of our readers to the following extracts from the letter of Mr. Sealy, a neighbor of Mr. Steele, which will not only serve to establish our position, but afford an illustration of the melancholy fact, that the best of men cannot be relied on when under the influence of prejudice and passion. "It so happened," says Mr. Sealy, that I resided on the nearest adjoining estate to Mr. Steele, and superintended the management of it myself for many years; I had, therefore, a better opportunity of forming an opinion than Mr. Clarkson can have—he has read Mr. Steele's account—/ wit- messed the operations and effects of his plans. He possesses one of the largest and most seasonable plantations, in a delightful part of the island ; with all these advantages, his estate was never in as good order as those in the same neighborhood, and the crops were neither adequate to the size and resources of the estate, nor in proportion to those of other estates in the same part of the island. Finally, after an experiment of thirty years under Mr. Steele, and his executor, Mr. T. Bell, Mr. Steele's debts remained unpaid, and the plantation was sold by a decree of the Court of Chancery. After the debts and costs of suit were paid, very little remained out of "", . to go to the residuary legatees. " It was very well known that the negroes rejoiced when the change took place, and thanked their God that they were relieved from the copyhold system. Such was the final result and success that attended this system, which has been so much eulogized by Mr. Clarkson. After the estate was sold and the system changed, I had equally an opportunity of observing the management, and certainly the manifest improvement was strong evidence in favor of the change. Fields, which had been covered with bushes for a series of years, were brought into cultivation, and the number of pounds of sugar was in some years more than doubled under the new management : the provision crops also were abundant; consequently, the negroes and stock were amply provided for." Again : the Attorney-General of Barbadoes corroborates the statements of Mr. Sealy in the most positive terms. He says, "I was surprised to see it asserted lately in print, that his,- Steele's plantation,—succeeded well under the management. I know it to be false. It failed considerably ; and bad he lived a few years longer, he would have died not worth a farthing. Upon his death, they reverted to the old system, to which the slaves readily and willingly returned ; the plants- tion now succeeds, and the slaves are contented and happy, and think themselves much better off than under the copy-hold system, for their wages would not afford them many comforts which they have now."* (Upon this subject see No. LX. London Quarterly. ART — West India Colonies.) But a short time since, a highly respectable, and one of the most intelligent farmers of Virginia, informed us that he had actually tried, upon a much smaller scale, a similar experiment, and that it entirely failed ; the negroes, devoid of judgment and good management, became lazy and improvident, and every time one was so unfortunate as to fall sick, it immediately became necessary to support him. The whole plan soon disgusted the master, and proved that the free labor system would not answer for the best of our negroes ; for those he tried were his best. Now these experiments were the more conclusive, because the master reserved the right of re-imposing slavery upon them in case the experiment should not meet his approbation : every stimulus was thus offered, in case their f reedom was really desirable, to work hard, but their natural * If it were not that the experiment would be too dangerous and costly, we would have no objection to see our slaves gratified with the enjoyment of freedom for a short time. There is no doubt but that they, like the Poles, Livonians, &c., and the negroes of Mr. Steele, would soon sigh again for a master's control, and a master's support and protection. It is a well known fact that upon the borders of the tree States, our slaves are not so much disposed to elope, as those who are situated further off; and the reason ie, they are near enough to witness the condition of the free black laborer, and they know it is far more wretched than their own. A citizen of the West, who is as well acquainted with this whole subject as any other in the State or in the United States, informed us, a short time since, that the slaves of Botetourt and Montgomery were much more disposed to elope and settle in Ohio, than those of Cabel and Mason, situated on the borders—because the former are not so well acquainted with the real condition of the free blacks as the latter. indolence and carelessness triumphed over love of liberty, and demonstrated the fact, that free labor, made out of slaves, is the worst in the world. So far we have adduced instances from among mixed pop ulations alone. Some have imagined that the indolence of liberated blacks in these cases, has arisen entirely from the presence of the whites, acknowledged to be the superior race both by law and custom ; that, consequently, if the blacks could be freed from the degrading influence exerted by the mere pressure of the whites, they would quickly manifest more desire to accumulate and acquire all the industrious habits of the English operative or New England laborer, Although this is foreign to our immediate object, which is to prove the inefficacy of free black labor in our country, where, of course, whites must always be present, we will, nevertheless, examine this opinion, because it has been urged in favor of that grand scheme of colonization recommended by some of the orators in the Virginia Legislature. Our own opinion is, that the presence of the whites ought rather to be an incentive and encouragement to labor. Habits of industry are more easily acquired when all are busy and active around us. A man feels a spirit of industry and activity stir within him, from moving amongst such societies as those of Marseilles, Liverpool, and New York, where the din of business and bustle assails his ears at every turn, whereas, he soon becomes indolent and listless at Bath or Saratoga. Why, then, are our colored free men so generally indolent and worthless among the industrious and enterprising citizens of even our Northern and New England States f It is because there is an inherent and intrinsic cause at work, which will produce its effect under all circumstances. In the free black, the principle of idleness and dissipation triumphs over that of accumulation and the desire to better our condition ; the animal part of the man gains the victory over the moral, and be, consequently, prefers sinking down into the listless, inglorious repose of the brute creation, to rising to that energetic activity which can only be generated amid the multiplied, refined, and artificial wants of civilised society. The very conception which nine slaves in ten have of liberty, is that of idleness and sloth with the enjoyment of plenty ; and we are_ not to wonder that they should hasten to practice upon their theory so soon as liberated. But the experiment has been sufficiently tried to prove most conclusively that the free black will work nowhere except by compulsion. St. Domingo is often spoken of by philanthropists and schemers ; the trial has there been made upon a scale sufficiently grand to test our opinions, and we are perfectly willing to abide the result of the experiment. The main purpose of the mission of Consul-General McKenzie, to Hayti, by the British Government, was to clear up this very question. We have made every exertion to procure the very valuable notes of that gentleman, on Hayti, but have failed ; we are, therefore, obliged to rely upon the eighty-ninth numbers of the London Quarterly, in one article of which mention is made of the remit of M'Kenzie's observations. "By all candid persons," says the Review, " the deliberate opinion which that able man has formed from careful observation, and the whole tenor of the evidence he has furnished, will be thought conclusive. Such invincible repugnance do the free negroes of that Island feel to labor, that the system of the code rural of  , about the genuineness of which so much doubt was entertained a few years ago, is described as falling little short of the compulsion to which the slaves had been subjected previous to their emancifation. ' The consequences of delinquincy,' he says, " are heavy fine and imprisonment, and the provisions ci the law are as despotic as can well be conceived.' He afterwards subjoins :—Such have been the various modes for inducing or compelling labor for nearly forty years. It is next necessary to ascertain, as far as it is practicable, the degree of success which has attended each ; and the only mode with which I am acquainted, is to give the returns of the exported agricultural produce during the same period, marking, where it can be done, any accidental circumstance that may have had an influence' He then quotes the returns at length, and observes—' There is one decided inference from the whole of these six returns, viz : the positive decrease of cane cultivation, in all its branches—the diminution of other branches of industry, though not equally well marked, is no less certain, than the articles of spontaneous growth maintain, if not exceed, theft former amount.' We may further add, that even the light labor required for trimming the planting coffee trees, has been so much neglected, that the export of coffee in  , falls short of that of  , by no less than "",""",""" lbs." (See London Quarterly Review, No. "", Art. West India Question.) We subjoin here, to exhibit the facts asserted by Mr. M'Kenzie in a more striking manner, a tabular view of some of the principle exports from St. Domingo, during her subjection to France, and during the best years of the reigns of Toussaint, Dessalines, and Boyer,* upon the authority of James Franklin, on the present state of Hayti. * It is known that under Boyer there was It union of the Island under one government. f The other years give the returns of the French part of the Island; Produce. French.  . lbs. Sugar,	""",""",""" Coffee,	"",""",""" Cotton,	",""",""" Toussaint.  . lbs. "".""",""" "".""".""" ",""","""  . lbs. "",""",""" "".""",""" ",""","""  ." lbs. """,""" "",""".""" """,""" Deesalines.	Boyer. There has been a gradual diminution of the amount of the products of Hayti, since  . In  , the whole value of exports was about $",""",""", more than $",""",""" less than in  , and the revenue of the Island was not equal to the public expenditure. Is not this fair experiment for forty years, under more favorable circumstances than any reasonable man had a right to anticipate, sufficient to convince and overwhelm the most sceptical as to the unproductiveness of slave labor converted into free labor f But the British colony at Sierra Leone is another case in point, to establish the same position. Evidence was taken in  , before a committee of the House of Commons. Capt. Bullen, R. N., stated that at Sierra Leone, they gave the blacks a portion of land to cultivate, and they cultivate just as much as will keep them, and not an inch more. Mr. Jackson, one of the Judges of the mixed Commission Court, being asked—" Taking into consideration the situation of Sierra Leone, and the attention paid by government to promote their comfort, what progress have they made towards civilization or the comforts of civilized life r makes this answer—" I should say very inadequate to the efforts which have been made to promote their comfort and civilization." Capt. Spence, being asked a similar question, replies—" I have formed a very different opinion as to their progress of industry. I have not been able to observe that they seem inclined to cultivate the country farther than vegetables and things of that kind. They do not seem inclined to cultivate for exportation. Their wants are very few, and they are very wild ; and their wants are supplied by the little exertion they make. They have sufficient to maintain them in clothing and food, and these are all their wants." this for the Spanish and French, ought therefore, to be proportionably erraator. Our own colony, upon the coast of Africa proves, too, the same fact. It has been fed slowly and cautiously, with emi- grants, and yet Mr. Ashmun's entreaties to colonization friends in the United States, to recollect that rice did not grow spontaneously in Africa, to send out laboring men, of good character, dm., but too conclusively show, in spite of th(i colored and exaggerated statements of prejudiced friends, the great difficulty of making the negroes work even in Liberia ;* and we have no doubt, that if ",""" or "",""" could be colonized annually in Africa, there would not be a more worthless and indolent race of people upon the face of the globe, than our African colonies would exhibit. We have now, we think, proved our position, that slave labor, in an economical point of view, is far superior to free negro labor ; and have no doubt that if an immediate emancipation of negroes were to take place, the whole southern country would be visited with an immediate general famine, from which the productive resources of all the other States of the Union could not deliver them. It is now easy for us to demonstrate the second point in our argument--that the slave is not only economically but morally unfit for freedom. And first, idleness and consequent want are, of themselves, sufficient, to generate a catalogue of vices of the most mischievous and destructive character. Look to the penal prosecution of every country, and mark the situation * We understand, from most undoubted authotity, that Mr. Barbour, a negro gentleman from Liberia, who lately visited the Virginia Springs, for the purpose of re-establishing his health, which had given way under the deleterious influence of an African climate, bears most unequivocal testimony to the idleness of the blacks in Liberia—thinks that the statement which has been generally given of the colony greatly exaggerated—considers it a partial failure at least ; and laugh. at the idea of its being made a recipient for the immense and rapidly increasing mass of our whole black population. nit of those who fall victims to the laws. And what a frightful proportion do we find among the indigent and idle classes of society ! Idleness generates want, want gives rise to temptation, and strong temptation makes the villain. The most appropriate prayer for frail, imperfect man, is " lead us not into temptation." Mr. Archer, of Virginia, well observed in his speech, before the Colonization Society, that " the free blacks were destined by an insurmountable barrier—to the want of occupation—thence to the want of food—thence to the distresses which ensue from that want—thence to the settled deprivation which grows out of those distresses, and is nursed at their bosoms ; and this condition was not casualty, but fate. The evidence was not speculation in political economy—it was geometrical demonstration." We are not to wonder that this class of citizens should be so depraved and immoral. An idle population will always be worthless ; and it is a mistake to think that they are only worthless in the Southern States, where it is erroneously supposed the slavery of a portion of their race depress them below their condition in the free States ; on the contrary, we are disposed rather to think their condition better in the slave than the free States. Mr. Everett, in a speech before the Colonization Society, during the present year, says: " they (the free blacks) form, in Massachusetts, about one seventy-fifth part of the population ; one-sixth of the convicts in our prisons are of this class." The average number of annual convictions in the State of Virginia, estimated by the late Governor Giles, from the penitentiary reports, up to  , is seventy-one for the whole population—making one in every sixteen-thousand of the white population, one in every twenty-two thousand of the slaves, and one for every five thousand of the free colored people. Thus, it will be seen, that crimes among the free blacks are more than three times as numerous as among the whites, and four and a half times more numerous than among the slaves. But, although the free blacks have thus much the largest proportion of crime to answer for, yet the proportion is not so great in Virginia as in Massachusetts. Although they are relatively to the other classes more numerous, making the one-thirtieth of the population of the State, not one-eighth of the whole number of convicts are from among them in Virginia, while in Massachusetts there is one-sixth. We may infer, then, they are not so degraded and vicious in Virginia, a slaveholding State, as in Massachusetts, a non slave-holding State. But there is one fact to which we invite particularly the attention of those philanthropists who have the elevation of Southern slaves so much at heart—that the slaves in Virginia furnish a much smaller annual proportion of convicts than the whites, and among the latter a very large proportion of convicts consist of foreigners or citizens of other States. There is one disadvantage attendant upon free blacks, in the slaveholding States, which is not felt in the non-slaveholding. In the former, they corrupt the slaves, encourage them to steal from their masters by purchasing from them, and they are, too, a sort of moral conductor by which the slaves can better organize and concert plans of mischief among themselves. So far we have been speaking of the evils resulting from mere idleness ; but there are other circumstances which must not be omitted in an enumeration of the obstacles to emancipation. The blacks have now all the habits and feelings of slaves, the whites have those of masters ; the prejudices are formed, and mere legislation cannot improve them. "Give me," said a wise man, "the formation of the habits and manners of a people, and I care not who makes the laws." Declare the negroes of the South free to-morrow, and vain will be your decree, until you have prepared them for it ; you depress, instead of elevating. The law would, in every point of view, be one of the most cruel and inhuman which could possibly be passed. The law would make them freemen, and custom or prejudice, we care not which you call it, would degrade them to the condition of slaves; and soon should we see, that "it is happened unto them, according to the true proverb, the dog is turned to his own vomit again, and the sow that has been washed, to her wallowing in the mire." "Ne quid nimis" should be our maxim ; and we must never endeavor to elevate beyond what circumstances will allow. It is better that each one should remain in society in the condition in which he has been born and trained, and not to mount too fast without preparation. If a Virginia or South-Carolina farmer wished to make his overseer perfectly miserable, he could not better do it, than by persuading him that he was not only a freeman, but a polished gentleman likewise, and consequently, induce him to enter his drawing room. He would soon sigh for the fields, and less polished but more suitable companions. Hence, in the Southern States, the contlition of the free blacks is better than in the Northern ; in the latter, he is told, that he is a freeman and entirely equal to the white, and prejudice assigns to him a degraded station—light is furnished him by which to view the interior of the fairy palace which is fitted up for him, and custom expels him from it, after the law has told him it was his. He, consequently, leads a life of endless mortification and disappointment. Tantalus like, he has frequently the cup to his lips, and imperious custom dashes it untasted from him. In the Southern States, law and custom more generally coincide : the former makes no profession which the latter does not sanction, and consequently, the free black has nothing to grieve and disappoint him. We have already- said, in the course of this review, that if we were to liberate the slaves, we could not, in fact, alter their condition—they would still be virtually slaves ; talent, habit, and wealth, would make the white the master still, and the emancipation would only have the tendency to deprive hint of those sympathies and kind feelings for the black which now characterize him. Liberty has been the heaviest curse to the slave, when given too soon ; we have already spoken of the eagerness and joy with which the negroes of Mr. Steele, in Barbadoes, returned to a state of slavery. The east of Europe affords hundreds of similar instances.  , Stanislaus Augustus, preparing a hopeless resistance to the threatened attack of Russia, in concert with the states, gave to Poland a constitution which established the complete personal freedom of the peasantry. The boon has never been recalled, and what was the consequence I " Finding (says Jones, in his volume on Rents) their dependence on their proprietors for subsistence remained undiminished, the peasants showed no very grateful sense of the boon bestowed upon them ; they feared they should now be deprived of all claim upon the proprietors for assistance, when calamity or infirmity overtook them. It is only since they have discovered that the connection between them and the owners of the estates on which they reside is little altered in practice, and that their old masters very generally continue, from expediency or humanity, the occasional aid they formerly lent them, that they have become reconciled to their new character of freemen." " The Polish boors are, therefore, in fact still slaves," says Burnett, in his View of the present state of Poland' "and relatively to their political existence, absolutely subject to the will of their lord as in all the barbarism of the feudal times." "I was once on a short journey with a nobleman, when we stopped to bait at a farm-house of a village. The peasants n hi! got intelligence of the presence of their lord, and assembled in a body of twenty or thirty, to prefer a petition to him. I was never more struck with the appearance of these poor wretches, and the contrast of their condition with that of their master : I stood at a distance, and perceived that he did not yield to their supplication. When he dismissed them, I had the curiosity to inquire the object of their petition, and he replied, that they had begged for an increased allowance of land, on the plea that what they had was insufficient for their support. He added, I did not grant it them because their present allotments is the usual quantity, and as it has sufficed hitherto, so I know it will in time to come. " Besides,' said he, if I give them more, I well know that it will not in reality better their circumstances.' Poland does not furnish a man of more humanity than the one who rejected this apparently reasonable petition ; but it must be allowed that he had reasons for what he did. Those degraded and wretched beings, instead of hoarding the small surplus of their absolute necessaries, are almost universally accustomed to expend it in that abominable spirit, which they call schnaps. It is incredible what quantities of this pernicious liquor are drunk by the peasant men and women. The first time I saw any of these withered creatures was at Dantzic. I was prepared by printed accounts, to expect a sight of singular wretchedness ; but I shrunk involuntarily from the sight pf the reality. Some involuntary exclamation of surprise, mixed with compassion, escaped me ; a thoughtless and a feelingless person (which are about the same thing) was standing by—' Oh, sir,' says he, 'you will find plenty of such people as these in Poland ; and you may strike them, and kick them, or do what you please with them, and they will never resist you : they dare not.' Far be it from me to ascribe the feelings of this man to the more cultivated and humanized Poles ; but each such in- cidental and thoughtless expressions betray too sensibly the general state of the feeling which exists in regard to these oppressed men." The traveller will now look in vain, throughout our slaveholding country, for such misery as is here depicted ; and in spite of all the tales told by gossipping travellers, he will find no master so relentless as the Polish proprietor, and no young man so " thoughtless" and " feelingless" as the young Pole above mentioned. But liberate our slaves, and in a very few years we shall have all these horrors and reproaches added unto us. In Livonia, likewise, the serfs were permaturely liberated ; and mark the consequences. Von Helen, who travelled through Livonia in  , observes : "Along the high road through Livonia are found, at short distances, filthy public houses, called in the country Rhatcharuas, before the doors of which are usually seen a multitude of wretched carts and sledges belonging to the peasants, who are so addicted to brandy and strong liquors,* that they spend whole hours in those places. Nothing proves so much the state of barbarism in which those men are sunk, as the manner in which they received the decree issued about this time. These savages, unwilling to depend upon their own exertions for support, made all the resistance in their power to that decree, the execution of which was at length entrusted to an armed fcirce." The Livonian peasants, therefore, received their new privileges yet more ungraciously than the Poles, though accompanied with the gift of property and secure means of subsistence, if they chose to exert thenuelses. By an edict of Maria Theresa, called by the Hungarians the ubarium, personal slavery and attachment to the soil were abolished, and the peasants declared to be " hominus liberce transmigrations;" and yet, says Jones, " the a We believe, in case of an emancipation of our blacks, that drunk- enness would be among them like the destroying angeL authority of the owners of the soil over the persons and property of their tenantry has been very imperfectly abrogated ; the necessities of the peasants oblige them frequently to resort to their landlords for loans of food ; they become laden with heavy debts, to be discharged by labor.* The proprietors retain the right of employing them at pleasure, paying them, in lieu of subsistence, about one-third of the actual value of their labor ; and lastly, the administration of justice is still in the hands of the nobles ; and one of the first sights which strikes a foreigner, on approaching their mansions, is a sort of low-frame work of posts, to which a serf is tied when it is thought proper to administer the discipline of the whip, for offences which do not seem grave enough to demand a formal trial." Let us for a moment revert to the black republic of Hayti, and we shall see that the negroes have gained nothing by their bloody revolution. Mr. Franklin, who derives his information from personal inspection, gives the following account of the present state of the island: " Oppressed with the weight of an overwhelming debt, contracted without an equivalent, with an empty treasury, and destitute of the ways and means for supplying it; the soil almost neglected, or at least very partially tilled ; without commerce or credit. Such is the present state of the republic ; and it seems almost impossible that, under the system which is now pursued, there should be any amelioration of its condition, or that it can arrive at 	Almost all our free negroes will run in debt to the full amount of their credit. " I never knew a free negro (says an intelligent correspondent in a late letter) who would not contract debts, if allowed, to a greater amount than he could pay ; and those whom I have suffered to reside on my land, although good mechanics, have been generally BO indolent and impoverished as to be in my debt at the end of the year, for provisions, brandy, die., when I would allow it." any very high state of improvement Hence, there appears every reason to apprehend that it will recede into irrecoverable insignificance, poverty, and disorder." (p. """.) And the great mass of the Haytiens are virtually in a state of as abject slavery as when the island was under the French dominion. The government soon found it absolutely necessary to establish a system of compulsion in all respects as bad, and more intolerable than, when slavery existed. The Code Henri prescribed the most mortifying regulations, to be obeyed by the laborers of the island ; work was to commence at day-light and continue uninterruptedly till eight o'clock ; one hour was then allowed to the laborer to breakfast on the spot ; at nine, work commenced again, and continued until twelve, when two hours repose was given to the laborer ; at two, he commenced again and worked well night. All these regulations were enforced by severe penal enactments. Even Toussaint l'Ouverture, who is supposed to have bad the welfare of the negroes as much at heart as any other ruler in St. Domingo, in one of his proclamations in the ninth year of the French Republic, peremptorily directs—" all free laborers, men and women, now in a state of idleness, and living in towns, villages, and on other plantations than those to which they belong, with the intention to evade work, even those of both sexes who had not been employed in field labor since the revolution, are required to return immediately to their respective plantations." And in article seven, he directs, that the " overseers and drivers of every plantation shall make it their business to inform the commanding officer of the district in regard to the conduct of the laborers under their management, as well as those who shall absent themselves from their plantations without a pass, and of those who, residing on the plantations, shall refuse to work ; they shall be forced to go to labor in the field, and if they prove obstinate, they shall be arrested and carried before the military commandant, in order to suffer the punishment above prescribed, according to the exigence of the case, the punishment being fine and imprisonment." And here is the boasted freedom of the negroes of St.. Domingo : the appalling vocabulary of "overseer," "driver," " pass," &c., is not even abolished. Slavery to the government and its military officers is substituted for private slavery ; the black master has stepped into the shoes of the white ; and we all know that he is the most cruel of masters, and more dreaded by the negro than any of the ten plagues of Egypt. We are well convinced that there is not a single negro in the commonwealth of Virginia, who would accept such freedom ; and yet the happiest of the human race are constantly invited to sigh for such freedom, and to sacrifice all their happiness in the vain wish. But, it is not necessary further to multiply examples ; enough has already been said, we hope, to convince the most sceptical of the great disadvantage to the slave himself, of freedom, when he is not prepared for it. It is unfortunate, indeed, that prejudiced and misguided philanthropists so often assert as facts, what, on investigation, turns out not only false, but even hostile to the very theories which they are attempting to support by them. We have already given one example of this kind of deception, in relation to Mr. Steele. We will now give another. " In the year  , the Chancellor Zamoyski," says Burnett, "enfranchised six villages in the Palatinate of Masovia. This experiment has been much vaunted by Mr. Cote, as having been attended with all the good effects desired ; and he asserts that the Chancellor had, in consequence, enfranchised the peasants on all his estates. Both of these assertions are false. I inquired particularly of the son of the present Count Zamoyski, respecting these six villages, and was grieved to learn, that the experiment had completely failed. The Count said, that within a few years, he had sold the estate ; and added, I was glad to get rid of it, from the trouble the peasants gave me. These degraded beings, on receiving their freedom, were overjoyed at they knew not what, having no distinct comprehension of what freedom meant ; but merely a rude notion that they may now do what they like.* They ran into every species of excess and extravagance which their circumstances admitted. Drunkenness, instead of being occasional, became almost perpetual ; riot and disorder usurped the place of quietness and industry ; the necessary labor suspended, the lands were worse cultivated than before ; the small rents required of them they were often unable to pay." (Bur-fates View of Poland, p. """.) Indeed, it is a calamity to mankind, that zealous and overheated philanthropists will not suffer the truth to circulate, when believed hostile to their visionary schemes. Such examples as the foregoing ought to be known and attended to. They would prevent a great deal of that impatient silly action which has drawn down such incalculable misery, so frequently, upon the human family. " There is a time for all things," and nothing in this world should be done before its time. An emancipation of our slaves would check at once that progress of improvement which is now so manifest among them. The whites would either gradually withdraw, and leave whole districts or settlements in their possession, in which case they would sink rapidly in the scale of civilization ; or, the blacks, by closer intercourse, would bring the whites down to their level. In the contact between the civilized and uncivilized man, all history and experience show, that the former will be sure to sink to the level of the latter. In these cases, it is always easier to * Precisely such a notion as that entertained by the slaves of this country and the West Indies. descend than ascend, and nothing will prevent the facilis des-census but slavery. The great evil, however, of these schemes of emancipation, remains yet to be told. They are admirably calculated to excite plots, murders and insurrections ; whether gradual or rapid in their operation, this is the inevitable tendency. In the former case, you disturb the quiet and contentment of the slave who is left unemancipated ; and he becomes the midnight murderer to gain that fatal freedom whose blessings he does not comprehend. In the latter case, want and invidious distinction will prompt to revenge. Two totally different races, as we have before seen, cannot easily harmonize together, and although we have no idea that any organized plan of insurrection or rebellion can ever secure for the black the superiority, even when free,* yet his idleness will produce want and worthlessness, and his very worthlessness and degradation will stimulate him to deeds of rapine and vengeance ; he will oftener engage in plots and massacres, and thereby draw down on his devoted head, the vengeance of the provoked whites. But one limited massacre is recorded in Virginia history ; let her liberate her slaves, and every year you would hear of insurrections and plots, and every day would perhaps record a murder ; the melancholy tale of Southampton would not alone blacken the page of our history, and make the tender mother shed the tear of horror over her babe as she clasped it to her bosom ; others of a deeper dye would thicken upon us ; those regions where the brightness of polished life has dawned and brightened into full day, would relapse into darkness, thick and full of horrors, and in those dark and dismal hours, we might well exclaim, in the shuddering language of the poet: * Power can never be dislodged from the hands of the intelligent, the wealthy, and the courageous, by any plans that can be formed by the poor, tlw ignorant, and the habitually subservient ; history scarce furnishes such an examnle. " Nox atra cava circumvolat umbra Quis cladetn illius noctis, quis funera fando Explicit Urbs antiqua ruit, multos dominata per annos Plurima perque vias sternunter inertia passim Corpora per que domos, et religiosa deorum Limina.	Crude I is ubique Luctus ubique pavor, et plurima mortis imago." Colombia and Guatemala have tried the dangerous experiment of emancipation, and we invite the attention of the reader to the following dismal picture of the city of Guatemala, drawn by the graphic pencil of Mr. Dunn : " With lazaroni in rags and filth, a colored population drunken and revengeful, her females licentious, and her males shameless, she ranks as a true child of that accursed city, which still remains as a living monument of the fulfilment of prophecy, and the forbearance of God, the hole of every foul spirit, the cage of every unclean and hateful bird. The pure and simple sweets of domestic life, with its thousand tendernesses and its gentle affections are here exchanged for the feverish joys of a dissipated hour; and the peaceful home of love is converted into a theatre of mutual accusations and recriminations. This leads to violent excesses ; men carry a large knife in a belt, women one fastened in the garter. Not a day passes without murder ; on fast days and on Sundays, the average number killed is from four to five. From the number admitted into the hospital of St. Juan de Dios, it appears that in the year  , near fifteen hundred were stabbed, of whom from three to four hundred died."* Thank Heaven, no such scenes as these have yet been witnessed in our country. From the day of the arrival of the negro slaves upon our coast in the Dutch vessel, up to the present hour, a period of more than two hundred years, * See Dunn's Sketches of Guatemala, in   and  , pp. "", "", and "". there have not perished in the whole southern country, by the hands of slaves, a number of whites equal to the average annual stabbings in the city of Guatemala, containing a population of "",""" souls ! " Nor is the freed African," says Dunn, "one degree raised in the scale—under fewer restraints, his vices display themselves more disgustingly ; insolent and proud, indolent and a liar, he imitates only the vices of his superiors, and to the catalogue of his former crimes adds drunkenness and theft." Do not all these appalling examples but too eloquently tell the consequences of emancipation, and bid us well beware how we enter on any system which will be almost certain to bring down ruin and degradation both on the whites and the blacks. But in despite of all the reasoning and illustrations which can be urged, the example of the northern States of our confederacy and the west of Europe afford, it is thought by some, conclusive evidence of the facility of changing the slave into the freeman. As to the former, it is enough to say that paucity of numbers,* uncongenial climate, and the state of agriculture to the North, together with the great demand of slaves to the South, alone accomplished the business. In reference to the west of Europe, it was the rise of the towns, the springing up of a middle class, and a change of agriculture, which gradually and silently effected the emancipation of the slaves, in a great measure through the operation of the selfish principle itself. Commerce and manufactures arose in the western countries, and with them sprang up a middle class of freemen, in the cities and the country too, which gradually and imperceptibly absorbed into its body all the slaves. But for this middle class, which acted as the absorbent, the slaves * " There are more free negroes and mulattoes (said Judge Tucker in  ) in Virginia alone, than are to be found in the four New Eneland States. and Vermont in addition to them."—(Taker's Black could not have been liberated with safety or 'advantage to either party. Now, in our southern country, there is no body of this kind to become the absorbent, nor are we likely to have such a body, unless we look into the vista of the future, and imagine a time when the south shall be to the north, what England now is to Ireland, and will consequently be overrun with northern laborers, underbidding the means of subsisteucs which will be furnished to the negro : then, perhaps, such a laboring class, devoid of all pride and habits of lofty bearing, may become a proper recipient or absorbent for emancipated slaves. But even then, we fear the effects of difference of color. The slave of Italy or France could be emancipated or escape to the city, and soon all records of his former state would perish, and he would gradually sink into the mass of freemen around him. But, unfortunately, the emancipated black carries a - mark which no time can erase; he forever wears the indelible symbol of his inferior condition ; the Ethiopian cannot change his skin, nor the leopard his spots. In Greece and Rome—and we imagine it was so during the feudal ages—the domestic slaves were frequently among the most learned, virtuous, and intelligent members of society. Terrence, Phtedrus, Asop, and Epicetus, were all slaves. They were frequently taught all the arts and sciences, in order that they might be more valuable to their masters. " Seneca relates," says Wallace, in his Numbers of Mankind, "that Calvisius Labinus had many Anagnosm slaves, or such as were learned and could read to their masters, and that none of them were purchased under  . "s. ""d. According to Pliny, Daphnis, the grammarian, cost  ". ""s. ""d. Roecius, the actor, would gain yearly  "."s. "d. A mono, or fool, was sold for """/. "s. "d." (Wallace, on the Numbers of Mankind, page """.) There was no obstacle, therefore, to the emancipation of such men as these, (except as to the fool,) either on the score of color, intelligence, habits, or anything else—the body of freemen could readily and without difficulty or danger absorb them. Not so now—nor will it be in all time to come, with our blacks. With these remarks, we shall close our examination of the plans by which it has been or may be proposed to get rid of slavery. If our arguments are sound, and reasonings conclusive, we have shown they are all wild and visionary, calculated to involve the south in ruin and degradation ; and we now most solemnly call upon the statesman and the patriot, the editor and the philanthropist, to pause, and consider well, before they move in this dangerous and delicate business. But a few hasty and fatal steps in advance, and the work may be irretrievable. For Heaven's sake, then, let us pause, and recollect, that on this subject, so pregnant with the safety, happiness, and prosperity of millions, we shall be doomed to realize the fearful motto, " nulls vestigia retrorsum." There are some who, in the plenitude of their folly and recklessness, have likened the cause of the blacks to Poland and France, and have darkly hinted that the same aspirations which the generous heart breathes for the cause of bleeding, suffering Poland and revolutionary France, must be indulged for the insurrectionary blacks. And has it come at last to this: that the hellish plots and massacres of Dessalines, Gabriel and Nat Turner, are to be compared to the noble deeds and devoted patriotism of Lafayette, Kosciusko, and Schrynecki ? and we suppose the same logic would elevate Lundy and Garrison to niches in the Temple of Fame, by the side of Locke and Rousseau. There is an absurdity in this conception, which so outrages reason and the most common feelings of humanity, as to render it unworthy of serious, patient refutation. But we will, nevertheless, for a moment examine it, and shall find, on their own principles, if such reasoners have any principles, that their conception is entirely fallacious. The true theory of the right of revolution we conceive to be the following ; no men, or set of men, are justifiable in attempting a revolution which must certainly fail; or if successful, must produce necessarily a much worse state of things than the pre-existent order. We have not the right to plunge the dagger into the monarch's bosom, merely because he is a monarch—we must be sure it is the only means of dethroning a tyrant and giving peace and happiness to an aggrieved and suffering people. Brutus would have had no right to kill Caesar, if be could have foreseen the consequences. If France and Poland had been peopled with a race of serfs and degraded citizens, totally unfit for freedom and self-government, and Lafayette and Kosciusko could have known it, they would have been parricides, instead of patriots, to have roused such ignorant and unhappy wretches to engage in a revolution, whose object they could not comprehend, and which would inevitably involve them in all the horrors of relentless carnage and massacre. No man has ever yet contended that the blacks could gain their liberty and an ascendancy over the whites by wild insurrections; no one has ever imagined that they could do more than bring down, by their rash and barbarous achievements, the vengeance of the infuriated whites upon their devoted heads. Where, then, is the analogy to Poland and to France,—lands of generous achievement, of learning, and of high and noble purposes, and with people capable of self-government It We shall conclude this branch of our subject with the following splendid extract from a speech of Mr. Canning, which should at least make the rash legislator more distrustful of his specifics : "In dealing with a negro, we must remember that we are dealing with a being possessing the form and strength of a man, but the intellect only of a child. To turn him loose in cialt the manhood of his physical passions, but in the infancy of his uninstructed reason, would be to raise up a creature resembling the splendid fiction of a recent romance the hero of which constructs a human form with all the physical capabilities of man, and with the thews and sinews of a giant, but being unable to impart to the work of his hadds a perception of right and wrong, be finds too late that be has only created a more than mortal power of doing mischief, and himself recoils from the monster which he has made. What is it we have to deal with ? is it an evil of yesterday's origin ? with a thing which has grown up in our time of which we have watched the growth—measured the extent—and which we have ascertained the means of correcting or controlling ? No, we have to deal with an evil which is the growth of centuries; which is almost coeval with the deluge which has existed under different modifications since man was man. Do gentlemen, in their passion for legislation, think, that after only thirty years discussion, they can now at once manage as they will, the most unmanageable, perhaps, of all subjects l Or do we forget, sir, that in fact not more than thirty years have elapsed since we first presumed to approach even the outworks of this great question. Do we, in the ardor of our nascent reformation, forget that during the ages which this system has existed, no preceding generation of legislators has ventured to such it with a reforming hand and have we the vanity to atter ourselves that we can annihilate it at a blow ? No, sir, o! If we are to do good, it is not to be done by sudden and violent measures." Let the warning language of Mr. Canning be attended to in our legislative halls, and all rash and intem- perate legislation avoided. We will now proceed to the last division of our subject, and examine a little into the injustice and evils of slavery, with the view of ascertaining if we are really exposed to those dangers and horrors which many seem to anticipate in the current of time. III. Injustice and Evils of Slavery.-"st. It is said slavery is wrong, in the abstract at least, and contrary to the spirit of Christianity. To this we answer as before, that any question must be determined by its circumstances, and if, as really is the case, we cannot get rid of slavery without producing a greater injury to both the masters and slaves, there is no rule of conscience or revealed law of God which can condemn us. The physician will not order the spreading cancer to be extirpated, although it will eventually cause the death of his patient, because he would thereby hasten the fatal issue. So, if slavery had commenced even contrary to the laws of God and man, and the sin of its introduction rested upon our heads, and it was even carrying forward the nation by slow degrees to final ruin—yet, if it were certain that an attempt to remove it would only hasten and heighten the final catastrophe—that it was, in fact, a " vulnus immedicabile " on the body politic which no legislation could safely remove, then we would not only not be found to attempt the extirpation, but we would stand guilty of a high offence in the sight of both God and man, if we should rashly make the effort. But the original sin of introduction rest not on our heads, and we shall soon see that all those dreadful calamities which the false prophets of our day are pointing to, will never, in all probability, occur. With regard to the assertion that slavery is against the spirit of Christianity, we are ready to admit the general assertion, but deny most positively, that there is any thing in the Old or New Testament, which would go to show that slavery, when once introduced, ought at all events to be abrogated, or that the master commits any offence in holding slaves. The children of Israel themselves were slaveholders, and were not condemned for it. All the patriarchs themselves were slavehollers Abraham had more than three hundred ; Isaac had a "great store" * of them ; and even the patient and meek Job himself had " a very great household." When the children of Israel conquered the land of Canaan, they made one whole tribe " hewers of wood and drawers of water," and they were at that very time under the special guidance of Jehovah ; they were permitted expressly to purchase slaves of the heathen, and keep them as an inheritance for their posterity ; and even the children of Israel might be enslaved for six years. When we turn to the New Testament, we find not one single passage at all calculated to disturb the conscience of an honest slaveholder. No one can read it without seeing and admiring that the meek and humble Saviour of the world in no instance meddled with the established institutions of mankind ; he came to save a fallen world, and not to excite the black passions of men, and array them in deadly hostility against each other. From no one did he turn away; his plan was offered alike to all—to the monarch and the subject, the rich and the poor, the master and the slave. He was born in the Roman world—a world in which the most galling slavery existed, a thousand times more cruel than the slavery in our own country; and yet he no where encourages insurrection ; he no where fosters discontent; but exhorts always to implicit obedience and fidelity. What a rebuke does the practice of the Redeemer of mankind imply upon the conduct of some of his nominal disciples of the day, who seek to destroy the contentment of the slaves, to rouse their most deadly passions, to break up the deep foundations of society, and to lead on to a night of darkness and confusion l " Let every man [says Paul] abide in the same calling wherein he is called. Art thou called being a servant "" care not for it; but if thou mayest be made * And the man (Isaac) waxed great and went forward, and grew until he became very great ; for he bad possession of flocks, and pos. session of herds, and great store of servants.--(Genesis chap, "".) free, use it rather."—(" Corinth. vii. "", "".) Again : "Let as many servants as are under the yoke, count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his doctrines be not blasphemed ; and they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren, but rather do them service, because they are faithful an" beloved partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort." —(" Tim. vi. ", ".) Servants are even commanded in Scripture to be faithful and obedient to unkind masters. " Servants," (says Peter,) " be subject to your masters with all fear ; Lot only to the good and gentle, but to the froward. For what glory is it if when ye shall be buffeted for your faults ye take it patiently ; but if when ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God."—(" Peter, ii. "", "".) These and many other passages in the New Testament, most convincingly prove, that slavery in the Rom to world was no where charged as a fault or crime upon the holder, and every where is the most implicit obedience enjoined. * We beg leave, before quitting this topic, to address a few remarks to those who have conscientious scruples about the holding of slaves, and therefore consider themselves under an obligation to break all the ties of friendship and kindred—dissolve all the associations of happier days, to flee to a land where this evil does not exist. We cannot condemn the conscientious actions of mankind, but we must be permitted to say, that if the assumption even of these pious gentlemen be correct, we do consider their conduct as very unphilosophical ; and we will go further still : we look upon it as even immoral upon their own principles. Let us admit that slavery is an evil, and what then ? Why, it has been entailed upon us by no fault of ours, and must we shrink from the charge which 	See Ephesiaus, vi. ", Titus ii. ", "". Philemon, Colossians, iii. "", and iv. ". devolves upon us, and throw the slave in consequence into the hands of those who have no scruples of conscience—those who will not perhaps treat him so kindly ? No ! this is not philosophy, it is not morality ; we must recollect that the unprofitable man was thrown into utter darkness. To the slaveholder has truly been entrusted the five talents. Let him but recollect the exhortation of the Apostle—" Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a master in heaven ;" and in the final day he shall have nothing on this score with which his conscience need be smitten, and he may expect the welcome plaudit—" Well done thou good and faithful servant, thou halt been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things ; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Hallam, in his History of the Middle Ages, says, that the greatest moral evil flowing from monastic establishments, consisted in withdrawing the good and religious from society, and leaving the remainder unchecked and unrestrained in the pursuit of their vicious practices. Would not such principles as those just mentioned lead to a similar result? We cannot, therefore, but consider them as whining and sickly, and highly unphilosophical and detrimental to society. "dly. But it is further said that the moral ejects of slavery are of the most deleterious and hurtful kind ; and as Mr. Jefferson has given the sanction of his great name to this charge, we shall proceed to examine it with all that respectful deference to which every sentiment of so pure and philanthropic a heart is justly entitled. " The whole commerce between master and slave," says he, " is a perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions ; the most unremitting despotism on the one part, and degrading submission on the other. Our children see this, and learn to imitate it, for man is an imitative animal—this quail- ly is the germ of education in him. From his cradle to his grave, lie is learning what he sees others do. If a parent had no other motive, either in his own philanthropy or self-love, for restraining the intemperance of passion towards his slave, it should always be a sufficient one that his child is present. But generally it is not sufficient. The parent storms, the child looks on, catches the lineaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in the circle of smaller slaves, gives a loose to his worst of passions, and thus nursed, educated, and daily exercised in the worst of tyranny, cannot but be stamped by it with odious peculiarities."* Now we boldly assert that the fact does not bear Mr. Jefferson out in his conclusions. He has supposed the master in a continual passion—in the constant exercise of the most odious tyranny, and the child, a creature of imitation, looking on and learning. But is not this master sometimes kind and indulgent to his slaves I Does he not mete out to them, for faithful service, the reward of his cordial approbation ? Is it not his interest to do it I and when thus acting humanely, and speaking kindly, where is the child, the creature of imitation, that he does not look on and learn " We may rest assured, in this intercourse between a good master and his servant, more good than evil may be taught the child ; le exalted principles of morality and religion may thereby be sometimes indelibly inculcated upon his mind, and instead Jf being reared a selfish contracted being, with nought but self to look to—he acquires a more exalted benevolence, a greater generosity and elevation of soul, and embraces for the sphere of his generous actions a much wider field. Look to the slaveholding population of our country, and you every where find them characterized by noble and elevated sentiments, by humane and virtuous feelings. We do not find among them that cold, contracted, calculating selfishness, which * Jefferson's Notes on Virginia. withers and repels every thing around it, and lessens or destroys all the multiplied enjoyments of social intercourse. Go into our national councils, and ask for the most generous, the most disinterested, the most conscientious, and the least unjust and oppressive in their principles, and see whether the slaveholder will be past by in the selection. Edwards says that slavery in the West Indies seems to awaken the laudable propensities of our nature, such as, " frankness, sociability, benevolence and generosity. In no part of the globe is the virtue of hospitality more prevalent than in the British sugar islands. The gates of the planter are always open to the reception of his guests—to be a stranger is of itself a sufficient introd uction." Is it not a fact, known to every man in the south, that the most cruel master are those who have been unaccustomed to slavery. It is well known that northern gentlemen who marry southern heiresses, are much severer masters than southern gentlemen.* And yet, if Mr. Jefferson's reasoning were correct, they ought to be milder : in fact, it follows from his reasoning, that the authority which the father is called on to exercise over his children, must be seriously detrimental ; and yet we know that this is not the case ; that on the contrary, there is nothing which so much humanizes and softens the heart, as this very authority ; and there are none, even among those who have no children themselves, so disposed to pardon the follies and indiscretion of youth, as those who have seen most of them, and suffered greatest annoyance. There may be many cruel masters, and there are unkind and cruel fathers too; but both the one and the other make all those around * A similar remark is made by Ramsay, and confirmed by Bryant Edwards, in regard to the West Indies. Adventurers from Europe are universally more cruel and morose towards the slaves, than the Creole or native West Indian. (Hist. of W. L Book ", Chap. I.) them shudder with horror. We are disposed to think that their example in society tends rather to strengthen than weaken the principle of benevolence and humanity. Let us now look a moment to the slave, and contemplate his position. Mr. Jefferson has described him as bating, rather than loving his master, and as losing, too, all that amor patrice which characterizes the true patriot. We assert again, that Mr. Jefferson is not borne out by the fact. We are well convinced that there is nothing but the mere relations of husband and wife, parent and child, brother and sister, which produce a closer tie, than the relation of master and servant.* We have no hesitation in affirming, that throughout the whole slaveholding country, the slaves of a good master are his warmest, most constant, and most devoted friends ; they have been accustomed to look up to him as their supporter, director and defender. Every one acquainted with southern slaves, knows that the slave rejoices in the elevation and prosperity of his master ; and the heart of no one is more gladdened at the successful debut of young master or miss on the great theatre of the world, than that of either the young slave who has grown up with them, and shared in all their sports, and even partaken of all their delicacies—or the aged one who has looked on and watched them from birth to manhood, with the kindest and most affectionate solicitude, and has ever met from them all the kind treatment and generous sympathies of feeling, tender hearts. Judge Smith, in his able speech on Foote's Resolutions, in the Senate, said, in an emergency, he would rely upon his own slaves for his defence—be would put arms into their hands, and he had no doubt they would defend him faithfully. In the late Southampton insurrection, we know 	There are hundreds of slaves in the southern country who will desert parents, wives or husbands, brothers and sisters, to follow a kind master—so strong is the tie of master and slave. "" that many actually convened their slaves and armed them for defence, although slaves were hero the cause of the evil which was to be repelled. We have often heard slaveholders affirm that they would sooner rely upon their slaves' fidelity and attachment in the hour of danger and severe trial, than on any other equal number of individuals; and we all know, that the son or daughter, who has been long absent from the parental roof, on returning to the scenes of infancy never fails to be greeted with the kindest welcome and the most sincere and heartfelt congratulations from those slaves among whom he has been reared to manhood. Gilbert Stuart, iu his History of Society, says that the time when the vassals of the feudal ages was most faithful, most obedient, and most interested in the welfare of his master, was precisely when his dependence was most complete, and when, consequently, he relied upon his lord for everything. When the feudal tenure was gradually changing, and the law was interposing between landlord and tenant, the close tie between them began to dissolve, and with it, the kindness on one side, and the affection and gratitude on the other, waned and vanished. From all this, we are forced to draw one important inference—that it is dangerous to the happiness and well-being of the slave, for either the imprudent philanthropist toattempt to interpose too often, or the rash legislator to obtrude his regulating edicts, between master and slave. They only serve to render the slave more intractable and unhappy, and the master more cruel and unrelenting. The British West India Islands form at this moment a most striking illustration of this remark ; the law has interposed between master and servant, and the slave has been made idle and insolent, and consequently worthless ; a vague and irrational idea of liberty has been infused into his mind ; lie has become restless and unhappy ; and the planters are deserting the islands, because the very law itself is corrupting and ruining the slave. The price of slaves, it is said, since the passage of those laws, has fallen fifty per cent., and the rapid declension of the number of slaves, proves that their condition has been greatly injured, instead of benefited. This instance is fraught with deep instruction to the legislator, and should make him pause. And we call upon the reverend clergy, whose examples should be pure, and whose precepts should be fraught with wisdom and prudence, to beware, lest in their zeal for the black, they suffer too much of the passion and pr*judice of the human heart to meddle with those pure principles by which they should be governed. Let them beware of " what spirit they are of." " No sound," says Burke, " ought to be heard in the church, but the healing voice of christian charity. Those who quit their proper character, to assume what does not belong to them, are for the most part ignorant of the character they assume, and of the character they leave off. Wholly unacquainted with the world in which they are so fond of meddling, and inexperienced in all its affairs, on which they pronounce with so much confidence, they have nothing of politics but the passions they excite. Surely the church is a place where one day's truce ought to be allowed to the dissensions and animositils of mankind." In the debate in the Virginia Legislature, no speaker insinuated even, we believe, that the slaves in Virginia were not treated kindly ; and all, too, agree that they were most abundantly fed ; and we have no doubt but that they form the happiest portion of our society. A merrier being does not exist on the face of the globe, than the negro slave of the U. States. Even Captain Hall himself, with his thick " crust of prejudice," is obliged to allow that they are happy and contented, and the master much less cruel than is generally imagined. Why, then, since the slave is happy, and happiness is the great object of all animated creation, should we endeavor to disturb his contentment by infusing into his mind a vain and indefinite desire for liberty—a something which he cannot comprehend, and which must inevitably dry up the very sources of his happiness. The fact is that all of us, and the great author of the Declaration of Independence is like us in this respect, are too prone to judge of the happiness of others by ourselves—we make self the standard, and endeavor to draw down every one to its dimensions—not recollecting that the benevolence of the Omnipotent has made the mind of man pliant and susceptible of happiness in almost every situation and employment. We might rather die than be the obscure slave that waits at our back—our education and our habits generate an ambition that makes us aspire at something loftier—and disposes us to look upon the slave as unsusceptible of happiness in his humble sphere, when he may indeed be much happier than we are, and have his ambition too ; but his ambition is to excel all his other slaves in the performance of his servile duties—to please and to gratify his master—and to command the praise of all who witness his exertions. Let the wily philanthropist but come and whisper into the ears of such a slave that his situation is degrading and his lot 'a miserable one—let him but light up the dungeon in which he persuades the slave that he is caged—and that moment, like the serpent that entered the garden of Eden, he destroys his happiness and his usefulness. We cannot, therefore, agree with Mr. Jefferson, in the opinion that slavery makes the unfeeling tyrant and ungrateful dependant ; and in regard to Virginia especially, we are almost disposed, judging from the official returns of crimes and convictions, to assert, with a statesman who has descended to his tomb, (Mr. Giles,) " that the whole population of Virginia, consisting of three casks—of free white, free colored, and slave colored population, is the soundest and most moral of any other, according to numbers, in the whole world, as far as is known to me." "dly. It has been contended that slavery is unfavorable to a republican spirit; but the whole history of the world proves that this is far from being the case. In the ancient republics of Greece and Rome, where the spirit of liberty glowed with most intensity, the slaves were more numerous than the freemen. Aristotle, and the great men of antiquity, believed slavery necessary to keep alive the spirit of freedom. In Sparta, the freemen were even forbidden to perform the offices of slaves, lest he might lose the spirit of independence. In modern times, too, liberty has always been more ardently desired by slaveholding communities. " Such " says Burke, " were our Gothic ancestors ; such, in our days, were the Poles ; and such will be all masters of slaves who are not slaves themselves." "These people of the southern (American) colonies are much more strongly, and with a higher and more stubborn spirit, attached to liberty, than those of the northward." And from the time of Burke down to the present day, the Southern States have always borne the same honorable distinction. Burke says, " it is because freedom is to them not only an enjoyment, but a kind of rank and privilege." Another, and l.erhaps more efficient cause of this, is the perfect spirit of equality so prevalent among the whites of all the slaveholding States. Jack Cade, the English reformer, wished all mankind to be brought to one common level. We believe slavery in the U. States has accomplished this, in regard to the whites, as nearly ascan be expected or even desired in this world. The menial and low offices being all performed by the blacks, there is at once taken away the greatest cause of distinction and separation of the ranks of society. The man to the north will not shake hands familiarly with his servant, and converse, and no* laugh and dine with him, no matter how honest and respectable he may be. But go to the south, and you will find that no white man feels such inferiority of rank as to be unworthy of association with those around him. Color alone is here the badge of distinction, the true mark of aristocracy, and all who are white are equal in spite of the variety of occupation. The same thing is observed in the West Indies. "Of the character common to the white resident of the West Indies, it appears to me," says Edwards, " that the leading feature is an independent spirit, and a display of conscious equality throughout all ranks and conditions. The poorest white person seems to consider himself nearly on a level witg the richest; and emboldened by this idea, approaches his employer with extended hand, and a freedom which, in the countries of Europe, is seldom displayed by men in the lower orders of life towards their superiors." And it is this spirit of equality which is both the generator and preserver of the genuine spirit of liberty. "thly. Insecurity of the whites, arising from plots, insurrections, cfc., among the blacks. This is the evil, after all, let us say what we will, which really operates most powerfully upon the schemers and emancipating philanthropists of those sections where slaves constitute the principal property. Now, if we have shown, as we trust we have, that the scheme of deportation is utterly impracticable, and that emancipation, with permission to remain, will produce all these horrors in still greater degree, it follows that this evil of slavery, allowing it to exist in all its latitude, would be no argument for legislative action, and therefore we might well rest contented with this issue ; but as we are anxious to exhibit this whole subject in its true bearings, and as we do believe that this evil has been most strangely and causelessly exaggerated, we have determined to examine it a moment, and point out its true extent. It seems to us that those who insist most upon it, commit the enormous error of looking upon every slave in the whole slave-holding country as actuated by the most deadly enmity to the whites, and possessing all that reckless, fiendish temper, which would lead him to murder and assassinate the moment the opportunity occurs. This is far from being true ; the slave, as we have already said, generally loves the master and his family ;* and few indeed there are, who can coldly plot the murder of men, women and children ; and if they do, there are fewer still who can have the villany to execute. We can sit down and imagine that all the negroes in the south have conspired to rise on a certain night, and murder all the whites in their respective families ; we may suppose the secret to be kept, and that they have the physical power to exterminate, and yet we may say the whole is morally impossible. No insurrection of this kind can ever occur where the blacks are as much civilized as they are in the United States. Savages and Koromantyn slaves can commit such deeds, because their whole life and education have prepared them ; and they glory in the achievement; but the negro of the United States has imbibed the principles, the sentiments, and feelings of the white ; in one word, he is civilized—at least, comparatively ; his whole education and course of life are at war with such fell deeds. Nothing, then, but the most subtle and poisonous principles, sedulously infused into his mind, can break his allegiance, and transform him into the midnight murderer. Any man who will attend to the history of the Southampton massacre, must at once see, that the cause of even the partial success of the insurrectionists, was the very circumstance that there was no extensive plot, and that Nat, a demented fanatic, was under the impression that heaven had enjoined him to a We scarcely know a single family, in which the slaves, especially the domestics, do not manifest the most unfeigned grief at the deaths which occur among the whites. liberate the blacks, and had made its manifetitations by loud noises in the air, an eclipse, and by the greenness of the sun. It was these signs which determined him, and ignorance and superstition, together with implicit confidence. in Nat, determined a few others, and thus the bloody work began. So fearfully and reluctantly did they proceed to the execution, that we have no doubt that if Travis, the first attacked, could. have waked whilst they were getting into his house, or could have shot down Nat or Bill, the rest would have fled, and the affair would have terminated in litnine. We have read with great attention the history of the insurrections in St. Domingo, and have no hesitation in affirming, that to the reflecting mind, that whole history affords the most complete evidence of the difficulty and almost impossibility of succeeding in these plots, even under the most favorable circumstances. It would almost have been a moral miracle, if that revolution had not succeeded. The French revolution had kindled a blaze throughout the world. The society of the Amis des Noirs, (the friends of the blacks,) in Paris, had educated and disciplined many of the mulattoes, who were almost as numerous as the whites in the island. The National Assembly, in its mad career, declared these mulattoes to be equal in all respects to the whites, and gave them the same privileges and immunities as the whites. During the ten years, too, immediately preceding the revolution, more than """,""" negroes were imported into the island from Africa. It is a well known fact, that newly imported negroes are always greatly more dangerous than those born among us ; and of those importations a very large proportion consisted of Baromantyn slaves, from the Gold Coast, who have all the savage ferocity of the North American Indian.* And lastly, the whites themselves, * It was the Koromantyns who brought about the insurrection in Jamaica, in  . They are a very hardy race, and the Dutch, who are disunited and strangely inharmonious, would nevertheless have suppressed the insurrections, although the blacks and mulattoes were nearly fifteen;	their numbers, if it had not been for the constant and too fatal interference of France. The great sin of that revolution rests on the National Assembly, and should be an awful warning to every legislature to beware of too much tampering with so delicate and difficult a subject, as an alteration of the fundamental relations of society. But there is another cause which will render the success of the blacks forever impossible in the South, as long as slavery exists. It is, that in modern times, especially, wealth and talent must ever rule over mere physical force. During the feudal ages, the vassals never made a settled concerted attempt to throw off the yoke of the lord or landed proprietor, and the true reason was, they had neither property nor talent, and consequently the power, under these circumstances, could be placed no where else than in the hands of the lords ; but so soon as the tiers etat arose, with commerce and manufactures, there was something to struggle for, and le crise des revolutions, (the crisis of revolutions,) was the consequence. No connected, persevering, and well concerted movement, ever takes place, in modern times, unless for the sake of property. Now, the property, talent, concert, and we may add, habit, are all with the whites, and render their continued superiority absolutely certain, if they are not meddled with, no matter what may be the disproportion of numbers. We look upon these insurrections in the same light that we do the murders and robberies which occur in society, and in a slave- a calculating, money-making people, and withal the most cruel masters in the world, have generally preferred these slaves, because they might be forced to do most work ; but the consequence of their avarice has been that they have been more cursed with insurrections than any other people in the West Indies. holding State,—they are a sort of substitute for the latter ; the robbers and murderers in what are called free States, are generally the poor and needy, who rob for money ; negro slaves rarely murder or rob for this purpose ; they have no inducement to do it—the fact is, the whole capital of the South is pledged for their maintenance. The present Chief Magistrate of Virginia has informed us that he has never known of but one single case in Virginia where negroes murdered for the sake of money. Now, there is no doubt, but that the common robberies and murders for money, take off, in the aggregate, more men, and destroy more property, than insurrections among the slaves ; the former are the result of fixed causes eternally at work, the latter of occasional causes 'which are rarely, very rarely, in action. Accordingly, if we should look to theirhole-of our southern population, and compare the average number of deaths, by the hands of assassins, with the numbers elsewhere, we would be astonished to find them perhaps as few, or fewer, than in any other population of equal amount on the globe. In the city of London there is, upon an average, a murder, or a house-breaking and robbery, every night in the year, which is greater than the amount of deaths by murders, insurrections, &c., in our whole southern country ; and yet the inhabitant of London walks the streets, and sleeps in perfect confidence, and why should not we, who are in fact in much less .danger ?* These calamities in London very properly give rise to the establishment of a * We wish that accurate accounts could be published of all the deaths which had occurred from insurrections in the United States, West Indies, and South America, since the establishment of slavery ; and that these could be compared to the whole population that have lived since that epoch, and the number of deaths which occur in other equal amounts of population from popular sedition, robberies, &c., and we would be astonished to see what little cause we have for the slightest approi?ension on this score. police, and the adoption of precautionary measures ; and so they should in our count, and every where else. And if the Virginia Legislature had turned its attention more to this subject during its last session, we think, with all due deference, it would have redounded much more to the advantage of the State than the intemperate discussion which was gotten up. But it is agreed on almost all bands, that the danger of insurrection now is not very great ; but a time must arrive, it is supposed by many, when the dangers will infinitely increase, and either the one or the other race must necessarily be exterminated. "I do believe," said one in the'Virginia Legislature, " and such must be the judgment of every reflecting man, that unless something is done in time to obviate it, the day must arrive when scenes of inconceivable horror must inevitably occur, and one of these two races of human beings will have their throats cut by the other." Another gentleman anticipates the dark day when a negro Legislature would be in session in the capital of the Old Dominion ! Mr. Clay, too, seems to be full of gloomy anticipations of the future. In his colonization speech of  , he says, "Already the slaves may be estimated at two millions, and the free population at ten ; the former being in the proportion of one to five of the latter. Their respective numbers will probably double in periods of thirty-three. In the year  , the number of the whites will probably be twenty, and of the blacks four millions. In  , forty and eight ; and in the year  , about a century, eighty and sixteen millions. What mind is sufficiently extensive in its reach—what nerve sufficiently strong—to contemplate this vast and progressive augmentation, without an awful foreboding of the tremendous copse(iitene(""." If these anticii,ations are true, then may we in despair sit quietly down by the waters of Babylon, and weep over our lot, for we can never remove the blacks—" Scent lateri lethalis arundo." But we have none of these awful forebodings. We do not look to the time when the throats of one race must be cut by the other on the contrary, we have no hesitation in affirming, and we think we can prove it, too, that in  , taking Mr. Clay's own statistics, we shall be much more secure from plots and insurrections than we are at this moment. It is an undeniable fact that, in the increase of population, the power and security of the dominant party always increases much more than in proportion to the relative augmentation of their numbers. One hundred men can much more easily keep an equal number in subjection than fifty, and a million would rule a million more certainly and securely than any lesser number. The dominant can only be overturned by concert and harmony among the subject party, and the greater the relative numbers on both sides, the more impossible does this concert on the part of the subjected become. A police, too, of the same relative numbers, is much more efficient amid a numerous population than a sparse one. We will illustrate by example, which cannot fail to strike even the most sceptical. Mr. Gibbon supposes that the hundredth man in any community is as much as the people can afford to keep in pay for the purposes of a police. Now suppose the community be only one hundred, then one man alone is the police. Is it not evident that the ninety-nine will be able at any moment to destroy him, and throw off all restraint I Suppose the community one thousand, then ten will form the police, which would have rather a better chance of keeping up order among the nine hundred and ninety, than the one in the one hundred—but still this would be insufficient. Let your community swell to one million, and ten thousand would then form the police, and ten thousand troops will strike terror in any city on the face of the globe. Lord Wellington lately asserted in the British Parliament, that Paris, containing a population of a million of souls, (the most boisterous and ungovernable,) never required, before the reign of Louis Philippe, more than forty-five hundred troops to keep it in the most perfect subjection. It is this very principle which explains the fact so frequently noticed, that revolutions are effected much more readily in small states than in large ones. The little republics of Greece underwent revolution almost every month ; the dominant party was never safe for a moment. The little states of modern Italy have undergone more changes and revolutions than all the rest of Europe together, and if fortign influence were withdrawn, almost every ship from Europe, even now, would bring the news of some new revolution in those states. If the standing army will remain firm to the government, a successful revolution in most large empires, as France, Germany, and Russia, is almost impossible. The two revolutions in France have been successful, in consequence of the disaffection of the troops, who have joined the popular party. Let us apply these principles to our own case ; and for the sake of simplicity, we will take a county of a mixed population of twenty thousand, viz, blacks ten thousand, and whites as many :—the patrol which they can keep out, would, according to our rule, be two hundred ; double both sides, and the patrol would be four hundred ; quadruple, and it would be eight hundred—now, a patrol of eight hundred would be much more efficient than the two hundred, though they were, relatively to the numbers kept in order, exactly the same; and the same principle is applicable to the progress of population in the whole slaveholding country. In  , our police would be much more efficient than now, if the two castes preserve anything like the same relative numbers. We believe it IA would be better for the whites that the negro population should double, if they added only one-half more to their numbers, than that they should remain stationary on both sides. ilence, an insuperable objection to all these deporting schemes —they cannot diminish the relative proportion of the blacks to the whites, but OD the contrary increase it, while they check the augmentation of the population as a whole, and consequently lessen the security of the dominant party. We do not fear the increase of the blacks, for that very increase adds to the wealth of society, and enables it to keep up the police. This is the true secret of the security of the West Indies and Brazil. In Jamaica, the blacks are eight-fold the whites ; throughout the extensive empire of Brazil they are three to one. Political prophets have been prophesying fur fifty years past, that the day would speedily arrive, when all the West Indies would be in possession of the negroes ; and the danger is no greater now than it was at the commencement. We sincerely believe the blacks never will get possession, unless through the mad interference of the mother countries, and even then we are doubtful whether they can conquer the whites. "\ ow,we have nowhere in the United States the immense disproportion between the two races observed in Brazil and the West Indies, and we are not like to have it in all time to come. We have no data, therefore, upon which to anticipate that dreadful crisis, which so torments the imagination of some. The little islands of the West Indies, if such crisis were fated frequently to arrive, ought to exhibit One continued series of massacres and insurrections, for their blacks are relatively much more numerous than with us, and a small extent of territory is, upon the principle just explained, much more favorable to successful revolution than a large one. Are we in then, most miphilosophically and needlessly tormenting Ourselves with the idea of insurrection—seeing that the West India Islands, even so much worse off than ourselves, are, nevertheless, but rarely disturbed ? It is well known that where the range is sufficiently extensive, and the elements sufficiently numerous, the calculation of chances may be reduced to almost a mathematical certainty ; thus, although you cannot say what will be the profit or loss of a particular gambling house in Paris on any one night, yet you may, with great accuracy, calculate upon the profits for a whole year, and with still greater accuracy, for any longer period, as ten, twenty, or one hundred years. Upon the same principle we speculate with much greater certainty upon masses of individuals, than upon single persons. Hence, bills of mortality, registers of births, marriages, crimes, Arc., become very important statistics, when calculated upon large masses of population, although they prove nothing in families or among individuals. Proceeding upon this principle, we cannot fail to derive the greatest consolation from the fact, that although slavery has existed in our country for the last two hundred years, there have been but three attempts at insurrection—one in Virginia, one in South-Carolina, and, we believe, one in Louisiana—and the loss of lives from this cause has not amounted to one hundred persons in all. We may then calculate in the next two hundred years, upon a similar result, which is incomparably smaller than the number which will be taken off in free States by murders fur the sake of money.	 But our population returns have been looked to, and it has been affirmed-that they show a steady increase of blacks, which will finally carry them in all proportion beyond the whites, and that this will be particularly the case in Eastern Virginia. We have no fears on this score either ; even if it were true, the danger would not be very great. With the increase of the blacks, we can afford to enlarge the police; and we will venture to say, that with the hundredth man at our disposal, and faithful to us, we would keep down insurrection in any large country on the face of the globe. But the speakers in the Virginia Legislature, in our humble opinion, made most unwarrantable inferences from the census returns. They took a period between   and  , and judged exclusively from the aggregate results of the whole time. Mr. Brown pointed out their fallacy, and showed that there was but a small portion of the period in which the blacks had rapidly gained upon the whites, but during the residue they were most rapidly losing their high relative increase, and would, perhaps, in  , exhibit an augmentation less than the whites. But let us go a little back. In  , the slaves in South-Carolina, says Marshall, were three times the whites ; the danger from them was greater then than it ever has been since, or ever will be again. There was an insurrection in that year, which was put down with the utmost ease, although instigated and aided by the Spaniards. The slaves in Virginia, at the same period, were much more numerous than the whites. Now, suppose some of those peepers into futurity could have been present, would they not have predicted the speedy arrival of the time when the blacks, running ahead of the whites in numbers, would have destroyed their security ? In  , the black population of Virginia was """,""", and the white "",""". In South-Carolina, the blacks were "",""", and the whites "",""". Comparing these with the returns of  , our prophets, could they have lived so long, might have found some consolation in the greater relative increase of the whites. Again, when we see in  , that the blacks in both States have fallen in numbers below the whites, our prophets, were they alive, might truly be pronounced false. (See Holmes' Annals and Marshers Life of Washington, on this subject.) But we will now proceed to examine more closely the melancholy inference which has been drawn from the relative advances of the white and black populations in Virginia, during the last forty years, and to show upon principles of an undeniable character, that it is wholly gratuitous, without any well founded data from which to deduce it. During the whole period of forty years, Virginia has been pouring forth emigrants more rapidly to the West than any other State in the Union ; she has indeed been "the fruitful mother of empires." This emigration has been caused by the cheap, fertile, and unoccupied lands of the West, and by the oppressive action of the Federal Government on the southern agricultural States. This emigration has operated most injuriously upon Virginia interests, and has had a powerful tendency to check the increase of the whites, without producing anything like an equal effect on the blacks. As this is a subject of very great importance, we shall endeavor briefly to explain it. We have already said in the progress of this discussion, that the emigration of a class of society will not injure the community, or check materially the increase of population, where a full equivalent is left in the stead of the emigrant. The largest portion of slaves sent out of Virginia, is sent through the operation of our internal slave trade; a full equivalent being thus left in place of the slave, this emigration becomes an advantage to the State, and does not check the black population as much as at first we should imagine, because it furnishes every inducement to the master to attend to his negroes, to encourage marriage, and to cause the greatest possible number to be raised, and thus it affords a powerful stimulus to the spring of black population, which, in a great measure, counteract the emiLuation. But when we come to examine into the efflux of the white population from our State to the West, we find a totally different case 	et Jib presented to our view. The emigration of the white man not only takes a laborer from the State, but capital likewise ; so far, therefore, in this case, from the State gaining an equivalent for the emigrant, she not only loses him, but his capital also, and thus she is impoverished, or at least advances more slowly in the acquisition of wealth, from a double cause—from the loss of both persons and capital. Let us examine a little more fully, the whole extent of the loss which the State thus suffers, and we shall find it immeasurably beyond our hasty conceptions. In the first place, we cannot properly estimate the loss of labor by the number of emigrants, for we must recollect the majority of emigrants from among the whites consists of males, who form decidedly the more productive sex ; and these males are generally between eighteen and thirty, precisely that period of life at which the laborer is most productive, and has ceased to be a mere consumer. Up to this period, we are generally an expense to those who rear us, and when we leave the State at this time, it loses not only the individuals, but all the capital, together with interest on that capital, which have been spent in rearing and educating. Thus a father has been for years spending the whole profits of his estate in educating his sons, and so soon as that education is completed they roam off to the West. The society of Virginia then loses both the individuals and the capital which had been spent upon them, without an equivalent. Perhaps a young man, thus educated, if he were to remain among us, could make, by the exercise of his talents, two or three thousand dollars per annum. This is more than ten field laborers could make by their labor, and consequently the loss of one such man as above described, is equal to the loss of ten common laborers in a politico-economical view, and perhaps to more than one hundred in a moral point of view. We have made some exertion to *seer- tain the average annual emigration of whites from the State, but without success. Supposing the number to be three thousand, and we have no doubt that it is far less less than the true amount, we would err but little in saying that these three thousand would be at least equal to twelve thousand taken from among mere laborers. Now, what is the effect of this great abstraction from Virginia, of productive citizens and capital ? Why, most assuredly, to prevent the accumulation of wealth, and the increase of white population. You will find, on examination, that this emigration robs the land of its fair proportion of capital and labor, and thus injures our agriculture, and entirely prevents all improvements of our lands; it sweeps off from the State the circulating capital as soon as formed, and leaves scarcely any thing of value behind, but lands, negroes and houses. All this has a tendency to check the increase of the whites, not only by the direct lessening of the population by emigration, but much more by paralyzing the spring of white population. The increase of the blacks, under these circumstances, becomes much more rapid, and has served in part to counteract the deleterious effects springing from the emigration of whites. In this point of view, the augmentation of our black population should be a source of consolation, instead of alarm and despondency. Let us now see whether this state of things is forever to be continued, or whether there be not some cheering signs in the politieal horizon, portending a better and a brighter day for the Old Dominion, in the vista of the future. There are two causes evidently calculated to check this emigration of capital and citizens from Virginia, and to insure a more rapid increase of her white population, and augmentation of her wealth. These are, first, the filling up of our vacant territory of population ; and second, the completion of such a system of internal improvement in Virginia, as will administer to the multiplied wants of her people, and take off the surplus produce of the interior of the State to the great market of the world—the first dependent on time, and the second on the energy and enterprise of the State. "st. It is very evident, that as population advances and overflows our Western territory, all the good lands will be gradually occupied ; a longer and a longer barrier of cultiva- ted and populous region will be interposed between Virginia and cheap Western lands, and with this onward march of population and civilization, emigration from the old States must gradually cease. The whole population of the Union is now "",""",""" ; in less than fifty years from this time, (a short period in the history of nations,) we shall have fifty millions of souls—our people will then cease to be migratory, and assume that stability every where witnessed in the older countries of the World ; and this result will be greatly accelerated, if the southern country shall, in the meantime, be relieved from the blighting oppression of federal exactions, As this state of things arrives, the whites in Virginia will be found to increase more rapidly than the blacks ; and thus, that most alarming inference drawn from disproportionate increase of the two castes, for the last forty years, will be shown, in the lapse of time, to be a false vision, engendered by fear, and unsupported by philosophy and fact. We already perceive that the whites, in the ratio of their increase, have been, for the last twenty years, gradually Oiling on the blacks; thus, in  , east of the Blue Ridge, the whites were """,""", and the slaves ""","""—in  , the proportions were, in the same district, whites, """,""" ; slaves, """,""" ; gain of the blacks on the whites, "",""". "But when did this gain take place ?" Between   and  , the rate of increase of the whites was only seven-tenths of one per cent., while that of the slaves was eleven per cent. From   to  , the ratio of the increase of whites was three per cent., and that of slaves was six per cent. From   to  , the ratio of increase of the whites was near eight per cent., and that of the slaves not quite nine per cent.; and when we take into consideration the whole population of our State, east and west of the Blue Ridge, we find that the whites have been gaining at the rate of fifteen per cent. for the last ten years, while the slaves have been increasing at the rate of ten per cent. only—and thus is it we find that those very statistics which are adduced by the abolitionists, to alarm the timid, and operate on the imagination of the unreflecting, turn out, upon closer scrutiny, to be of the most cheering and consolatory character, clearly demonstrating, upon the very principle of calculation assumed by the abolitionists themselves, that the condition of the whites is rapidly altering for the better, with the lapse of time. We will now proceed to point out the operation of the second cause, above mentioned—a judicious system of internal improvement in checking emigration to the West. It is well known, that in proportion to the facilities which are offered to commerce, and the ease and cheapne" with which the products of land may be conveyed to market, so do the profits of agriculture rise, and with them, a general prosperity is diffused over the whole country—new products are raised upon the soil—new occupations springing up—old ones are enlarg ed and rendered more productive—a wider field is opened for the display of the energies of both mind and body, and the rising generation are bound down to the scenes of their infancy, and the homes of their fathers ; not by the tie of affection and association alone, but by the still stronger ligament of interest. Sons who have spent in their education all the profits which a kind father has earned by hard industry on the soil, will not now be disposed to wring from his kindness the small patrimony which he may possess, and move off with the proceeds to the West ; but general prosperity will induce them to remain in the land which gave them birth, to add to the wealth and the population of the State, and to be a comfort and a solace to their aged parents in the decline of their days. We do, indeed, consider internal improvement in Virginia, the great panacea by which most of the ills which now weigh down the State may be removed, and health and activity communicated to every department of industry. We are happy to see that the Legislature of Virginia, during the last session, incorporated a company to complete the James River and Kanawha improvements, and that the city of Richmond has so liberally contributed by her subscriptions, as to render the project almost certain of success. It is this great improvement which is destined to revolutionize the financial condition of the Old Dominion, and speed her on more rapidly in wealth and numbers, than she has ever advanced before ; the snail pace at which she has hitherto been crawling, is destined to be converted into the giant's stride, and this very circumstance, of itself, will defeat all the gloomy predictions about theiblacks. The first effect of the improvement will be to raise up larger towns in the eastern portion of the State.* Besides other manifold advantages which * Dr. Cooper, of Columbia, whose capacious mind has explored every department of knowledge, and whose ample experience through a long life, has furnished him with the most luminous illustrations and facts, has most admirably pointed out in the ""th chapter of his Political Economy, the great advantages of large towns, and we have no doubt but that the absence of large towns in Virginia, has been one cause of the inferiority of Virginia to some of the Northern States, in energy and industry. We are sorry that our limits will not allow us to insert a portion of the chapter on the advantages of large towns, just referred to, and that we must content ourselves with a warm recommendation of its perusal. these towns will diffuse, they will have a tendency to draw into them the capital and free laborers of the North, and in this way to destroy the proportion of the blacks. Baltimore is now an exemplification of the fact, Nihich, by its mighty agency, is fast making Maryland a non-slaveholding State. Again, the rise of cities in the lower part of Virginia, and increased density of population, will render the division of labor more complete, break down the large farms into small ones, and substitute, in a great measure, the garden for the plantation cultivation ; consequently, less slave, and more free labor will be requisite, and in due time the abolitionists will find this most lucrative system working to their heart's content, increasing the prosperity of Virginia, and diminishing the evils of shivery, without those impoverishing effects which all other schemes must necessarily have. Upon the West, particularly, the beneficial effects of a judicious system of improvement, will be almost incalculable, At this moment, the emigration from the western and middle counties of Virginia, is almost as great as from the eastern. The western portion of Virginia, in consequence of its great distance from market, and the wretched condition of the various communications leading through the State, is necessarily a grazing country. A grazing country requires but a very sparse population, and consequently, but small additions to our western population renders it redur dant, and there is an immediate tendency in the supernumeraries to emigration. A gentleman from the West lately informed us, that in his immediate neighborhood he knew of seventy persons who had moved oft; and many others were exceedingly anxious to go, but were detained because they could not dispose of their lands. The remedy for all this is as glaring as the light of the mid-day sun. Give to this portion of the State the communications which they require. Let our great central im- provement be completed, and immediately the grazing system will be converted into the grain growing, and the very first effect of sticking the plough into the soil, which has hitherto grown grass alone, will be an increased demand for labor, which will at once check the tide of emigration, so rapidly flowing on to the distant West—and agricultural profits will rise at once "" or """ per cent. One of the most closely observant citizens of the West has informed us, that he can most conclusively show, that if flour would command $" a barrel, on the farms in his neighborhood, the profits of raising grain would be double those of the grazing system. Ilere, then, is the true ground for unity of action, between the eastern and western portion of Virginia ; let them steadily unite in pushing forward a vigorous system of internal improvement. Under what a miserably short-sighted and suicidal policy must the West act, then, if it seriously urges the emancipation of our slaves. The very first effect of it will be, to stop forever the great central improvement. Where is the State to get the money from, to cut canals and railroads through her territory, and send out thousands besides to Africa ? The very agitation of this most romantic and impracticable scheme is calculated to nip in the bud our whole system of internal improvements ; and we can but hope that the intelligence of the West will soon discover how very hostile this whole abolition scheme is to all its true interests, and will curb in their wild career, by the right of instruction, those who would uproot the very foundations of society, if their schemes should ever be carried out to their full extent. We venture to predict, that, if these abolition schemes shall ever be seriously studied in Virginia, that there will be but one voice—but one opinion concerning them, throughout the State—that they are at war with the true interests of Virginia, in every quarter—in the West as well as the East. We hope then, most sincerely, that those gentlemen who have been so perseveringly engaged in urging forward this great scheme of improvement, will not falter until the work is accomplished. We are well convinced that they are the true benefactors of the State—and they deserve well of the republic—and at some day, not very distant, they will have the consolation of seeing that the moral effects of this system will be no less salutary than the physical. We hope, then, we have shown, upon principles which cannot be controverted, that the experience of the last forty years in Virginia, need not fill us with apprehensions for the future. Time and internal improvement will care all our ills, and speed on the Old Dominion more rapidly in wealth and prosperity. Many are most willing to allow the force of the preceding . reasoning, and to admit that there is no real danger to be apprehended either now, or in future, from our blacks ; and yet, they say there is a feeling of insecurity throughout the slaveholding country, and this sense of insecurity destroys our happiness. Now, we are most willing to admit that, after such an insurrection as that in Southampton, the public mind will be disturbed, and alarm and apprehension will pervade the community. But the fact proves, that all this is of short, very short duration. We believe that there was not a single citizen in Virginia, who felt any alarm from the negroes, previous to the Southampton tragedy, and we believe at this moment there are very few who feel the slightest apprehension. We have no doubt, paradoxical as it may seem to some, but that the population of our slaveholding country enjoys as much or more conscious security, than any other people on the face of the globe ! You will find throughout the whole slave-holding portion of Virginia, and we believe it is the same in the southern States, generally, that the houses are scarcely ever fastened at night, so as to be completely inaccessible to Al those without, except in towns. This simple fact is demonstration complete of the conscious security of our citizens, and their great confidence in the fidelity of the blacks. There is no bas people, no lower class, on the globe, among whom the life of a man is so secure as among the slaves of America, for they rarely murder, as we have already seen, for the sake of money. A negro will rob your hen-roost or your stye, but it is rare indeed, that he can ever be induced to murder you. Upon this subject we speak from experience. We have sojourned in some of the best regulated countries of Europe, and we know that every where the man of property dares not close his eyes before every window and door are barred against intruders from without. And, we believe, even in our northern States, these precautions are adopted to a much greater extent than with us ; and, consequently, mark a much greater sense of insecurity than exists among us. "thly, and lastly. Slave labor is unproductive, and the distressed condition of Virginia and the whole South is owing to this cause. Our limits will not allow us to investigate fully this assertion, but a very partial analysis will enable us to show that the truth of the general proposition upon which the conclusion is based, depends on circumstances, and that those circumstances do not apply to our southern country. The ground assumed by Smith and Storch, who are the most able supporters of the doctrine of the 'superior productiveness of free labor, is that each one is actuated by a desire to accumu late when free, and this desire produces much more efficient and constant exertions than can possibly be expected from the feeble operation of fear upon the slave. We are, in the main, converts to this doctrine, but must be permitted to limit it by some considerations. It is very evident, when we look to the various countries in which there is free labor alone, that a vast difference in its productiveness is manifested. The English operative we are disposed to consider the most productive laborer in the world, and the Irish laborer, in his immediate neighborhood, is not more than equal to the southern slave—the Spanish and even Italian laborers are inferior. Now, how are we to account for this great ditierence " It will be found mainly to depend upon the operation of two great principles, and secondarily upon attendant circumstances. These two principles are the desire to accumulate and better our condition, and a desire to indulge in idleness and inactivity. We have already seen that the principle of idleness triumphed over the desire for accumulation among the savages of North and South America, among the African nations, among the blacks of St. Domingo, dr,c., and nothing but the strong arm of authority could overcome its operation. In southern countries idleness is very apt to predominate, even under the most favorable circumstances, over the desire to accumulate, and slave labor, consequently, in such countries, is most productive. Again, staple growing States are cceteris paribus, more favorable to slave labor than manufacturing States. Slaves in such countries may be worked by bodies under the eye of a superintendent, and made to perform more labor than freemen. There is no instance of the successful cultivation of the sugar cane by free labor. St. Domingo, once the greatest sugar growing island in the world, makes now scarcely enough for her own supply. We very much doubt even whether slave labor be not best for all southern agricultural countries. Humboldt, in his New Spain, says he doubts whether there be a plant on the globe so productive as the banana, and yet these banana districts, strange to tell, are the poorest and most miserable in all South America, because the people only labor a little to support themselves, and spend the rest of their time in idleness. There is no doubt but slave labor would be the most productive kind in these dis- tricts. We doubt whether the extreme south of the 'United States, and the West India Islands, would ever have been cultivated to the same degree of perfection as now, by any other than slave labor. The history of colonization furnishes no example whatever, of the transplantation of whites to very warm or tropical latitudes without signal deterioration of character, attended with an unconquerable aversion to labor. And it would seem, that nothing but slavery can remedy this otherwise inevitable tendency. The fact, that to the North, negro slavery has every where disappeared, whilst to the South it has maintained its ground triumphantly against free labor, is of itself conclusive of the superior productiveness of slave labor in southern latitudes. We believe that Virginia and Maryland are too far North for slave labor, but all the States to the South of these are, perhaps, better adapted to slave labor than free. But it is said, with the increasing density of population, free labor becomes cheaper than slave, and finally extinguishes it, as has actually happened in the west of Europe ; this, we are ready to admit, but think it was owing to a change in the tillage, and rise of manufactures and commerce, to which free labor alone is adapted, As a proof of this, we can cite the populous empire of China, and the Eastern nations, generally, where slave labor has stood its ground against free labor, although the population is denser, and the proportional means of subsistence more scanty than any where else on the face of the globe. How is this to be accounted for, let us ask Does it not prove, that under some circumstances, slave labor is as productive as free I We would as soon look to China to test this principle, as any other nation on earth. The slave districts in China, according to the report of travellers, are determined by latitude and agricultural products. The wheat growing districts have no slaves, but the rice, cotton, and sugar- growing districts, situated in warm climates, have all of them slaves, affording a perfect exemplification of the remarks above made. Again, looking to the nations of antiquity, if the Scriptural accounts are to be relied on, the number of inhabitants of Palestine must have been more than ",""",""" ; at which rate, Palestine was at least, when taking into consideration her limited territory, five times as populous as England.* Now, we know the tribes of Judah and Israel both used slave labor, and it must have been exceedingly productive ; for, we find the two Kings of Judah and Israel bringing into the field no less than ",""",""" chosen men and Jehosaphat, the son of Asa, had an army consisting of ",""",  and what a prodigious force must he have commanded, had he been sovereign of all the tribes. Nothing but the most productive labor could ever have supported the immense armies which were then led into the field. Wallace thinks that ancient Egypt must have been thrice as populous as England ; and yet so valuable was slave labor, that ten of the most dreadful plagues that ever affected mankind, could not dispose the selfish heart of Pharoah to part with his Lsraelitisb. slaves ; and when he lost them, Egypt sunk, never to rise to her pristine grandeur again. Ancient Italy, too, not to mention Greece, was exceedingly populous, and perhaps Rome was a larger city than any of modern times; and yet slave labor supported these dense populations, and even rooted out free labor. All these examples prove sufficiently, that under certain circumstances, slave is as productive, and even more productive, than free labor. But the Southern States, and particularly Virginia, have been compared with the non-slaveholding States, and pronounc- * Sec Wallace on the Numbers of Mankind, p. "", Edin. edition. f "d. Chron. xiii. ". "d. Chron. xvii. ""* ed far behind them in the general increase of wealth and population ; and this, it is said, is a decisive proof of the inferiority of slave labor in this country. We are sorry that we have not space for a thorough investigation of this assertion, but we have no doubt of its fallacy. Look to the progress of the colonies before the establishment of the Federal Government, and you find that the slaveholding were the most prosperous and the most wealthy. The North dreaded the formation of the confederated government, precisely because of its poverty. This is an historical fact. It stood to the South, as Scotland did to England at the period of the Union ; and feared lest the South, by its superior wealth, supported by this very slave labor, all of a sudden, has become so unproductive, should abstract the little wealth which it possessed. Again, look to the exports at the present time of the whole confederacy, and what do we see ? Why, that one-third of the States, and those slaveholding, too, furnish two-thirds of the whole exports ! But although this is now the case, we are still not prosperous. Let us ask, then, two simple questions : "st. low came the South, for two hundred years, to prosper with her slave labor, if so very unproductive and ruinous ? And "dly. How does it happen, that her exports are so great, even now, and that her prosperity is, nevertheless, on the decline ? Painful as the accusation may be to the heart of the true patriot, we are forced to assert, that the unequal operation of the Federal Government has principally achieved it. The North has found that it could not compete with the South in agriculture, and has had recourse to the system on duties, for the purpose of raising up the business of manufactures. This is a business in which the slave labor cannot compete with northern, and in order to carry this system through, a coalition has been formed with the West, by which a large portion of the Federal funds are to be spent in that quarter for internal improvements. These duties act as a discouragement to southern industry, which furnishes the exports by which the imports are purchased, and a bounty to northern labor, and the partial disbursements of the funds, increase the pressure on the South to a still greater degree. It is not slave labor, then, which has produced our depression, but it is the action of the Federal Government which is ruining slave labor. There is, at this moment, an exemplification of the destructive influence of government agency in the West Indies. The British West India Islands are now in a more depressed condition than any others, and both the Edinburgh and London Quarterly Reviews charge their depression upon the regulations, taxing sugar, coffee, &c., and preventing them, at the same time, from purchasing bread stuffs, &c., from the United States, which can be furnished by them cheaper than from any other quarter. Some of the philanthropists of Great Britain cry out it is slavery which has done it, and the slaves must be liberated but they are at once refuted by the fact., that never has an island flourished more rapidly than Cuba, in their immediate neighborhood. And Cuba flourishes because she enjoys free trade, and has procured, of late, plenty of slaves. It is curious that the population of this island has, for the last thirty years, kept pace with that of Pennsylvania, one of the most flourishing of the States of the confederacy, and her wealth has increased in a still greater ratio.* Look again to Brazil, perhaps at this moment the most prosperous state of South America, and we find her slaves three times more numerous than the freemen. Mr. Brougham, in his Colonial Policy, says that Cayenne never flourished as long as she was scantily supplied with slaves, but her prosperity commenced the moment she was supplied with an abundance of * See some interesting statistics concerning this island in Mr. Poinsett's Notes on Mexico. this unproductive labor. Now we must earnestly ask an explanation of these phenomena, upon the principle that slave labor is unproductive. There are other causes, too, which have operated in concert with the Federal Government, to depress the South. The climate is unhealthy, and upon average, perhaps one- tenth of the labor is suspended during the sickly months. There is a great deal of travelling, too, from this cause to the North, which abstracts the capital from the South, and spreads it over the North. The emigration from the South to the West, as we have before seen, is very great and very injurious; and added to all this, the standard of comfort is much higher in the slaveholding than the non-slaveholding States.* All these circumstances together, are sufficient to account for the depressed condition of the South, without asserting that slave labor is valueless. * In the Virginia debate, it was said that the slow progress of the Virginia population was a most unerring symptom of her want of prosperity, and the inefficacy of slave labor. Now we protest against this criterion, unless very cautiously applied. Ireland suffers more from want and famine than any other country in Europe, and yet her population advances almost as rapidly as ours, and it is this very increase which curses the country with the plague or famine. In the Highlands of Scotland, they have a very sparse population, scarcely increasing at all ; and yet they are much better fed, clothed, &c., than in Ireland. Malthus has prqyed, that there are two species of checks which repress redundant populations—positive and preventive. It is the latter which keeps down the Scotch population ; while the former, always accompanied with misery, keeps down the Irish. We believe, at this time, the preventive checks are in full operation in Virginia. The people of this State live much better than the same classes to the North, and they will not get married unless there is a prospect of maintaining their families in the same style they have been accustomed to live in. We believe the preventive checks may commence their operation too soon for the wealth ofa State, but they always mark a high degree of civilization—so that the slow progress of population in 	"		 	 But we believe all other causes as "dust in the balance," when compared with the operation of the Federal Government. How does it happen that Louisiana, with a greater propor_ tional numbers of slaves than any other State in the Union, with the most insalubrious climate, with one-fourth of her white population spread over the more northern States in the sickly season, and with a higher standard of comfort than perhaps any, other State in the Union, is nevertheless one of the most rapidly flourishing in the whole southern country I The true answer is, she has been so fortunately situated as to be able to reap the fruits of Federal protection. "Midas's wand" has touched her, and she has reaped the golden harvest. There is no complaint there of the unproductiveness of slave labor. But it is time to bring this long article to a close; it is upon a subject which we have most reluctantly discussed ; but, as we have already said, the example was set from a higher quarter ; the seal has been broken, and we therefore determined to enter fully into the discussion. If our positions be true, and it does seem to us they may be sustained by reasoning almost as conclusive as the demonstrations of the mathematician, it follows, that the time for emancipation has not yet arrived, and perhaps it never will. We hope, sincerely, that the intelligent sons of Virginia will ponder before they move—before they enter into a scheme which will destroy more than half Virginia's wealth, and drag her down from her proud and elevated station among the mean things of the earth,—and when, Sampson-like, she shall, by this ruinous scheme, be shorn of all her power and all her glory, the passing stranger may at some future day exclaim, The Niobe of nations--there she stands, "Wrinrullnaa nyul bninhuna in hem v.nioninaa arna " Once more, then, do we call upon our statesmen to pause, ere they engage in this ruinous scheme. The power of man has limits, and he should never attempt impossibilities. We do believe it is beyond the power of man to separate the elements of our population, even if it were desirable. The deep and solid foundations of society cannot be broken up by the vain fiat of the legislator. We must recollect that the laws of Lycurgus were promulgated, the sublime eloquence of Demosthenes and Cicero was heard, and the glorious achievements of Epaminondas and Scipio were witnessed, in countries where slavery existed—without for one moment loosening the tie between master and slave. We must recollect, too, that Poland has been desolated ; that Kosciusko, Sobieski, Scrynecki, have fought and bled for the cause of liberty in that country ; that one of her monarchs annulled, in wards, the tie between master and slave, and yet the order of nature has, in the end, vindicated itself, and the dependence between master and slave has scarcely for a moment ceased. We must recollect, in fine, that our own country has waded through two dangerous wars—that the thrilling eloquence of the Demosthenes of our land has been heard with rapture, exhorting to death, rather than slavery,—that the most liberal principles have ever been promulgated and sustained, in our deliberate bodies, and before our judicial tribunals—and the whole has passed by without breaking or tearing asunder the elements of our social fabric. Let us reflect on these things, and learn wisdom from experience ; and know that the relations of society, generated by the lapse of ages, cannot be altered in a day. 