PROFESSOR DEW ON SLAVERY.* TN looking to the texture of the population of our country, there is nothing so well calculated to arrest the attention of the observer, as the existence of negro slavery throughout a large portion of the confederacy. A race of people, differing from us in color and in habits, and vastly inferior in the scale of civilization, have been increasing and spreading, "growing with our growth, and strengthening with our strength," until they have become intertwined and intertwisted with every fibre of society. Go through our Southern country, and every where you see the negro slave by the side of the white man; you find him alike in the mansion of the rich, the cabin of the poor, the workshop of the mechanic, and the field of the planter. Upon the contemplation of a population framed like this, a curious and interesting question readily suggests itself to the inquiring mind :—Can these two distinct races of people, now living together as master and servant, be ever separated Can the black be sent back to his African home, or will the day ever arrive when he can be liberated from his thraldom, and mount upwards in the scale of civilization and rights, to an equaiity with the white I This is a question of * Review of the debate in the Virginia Legislature, —'. By Tnours R. Dsw, Professor of History, Metaphysics, and Political Law, William and Mary College, Virginia. Abolition of Slavery. . De- bate in the Virginia Legislature of ' ', on the Abolition of Slavery. Richmond. . Letter of Appomattox to the People of Virginia, on the sub;ect of the Abolition of Slavery. Richmond. truly momentous character ; it involves the whole framework of society, contemplates a separation of its elements, or a radical change in their relation, and requires, for its adequate investigation, the most complete and profound knowledge of the nature and sources of national wealth and political aggrandizement, an acquaintance with the elastic and powerful spring of population, and the causes which invigorate or paralyze its energies, together with a clear perception of the varying rights of man, amid all the changing circumstances by which he may be surrounded, and a profound knowledge of all the principles, passions, and susceptibilities which make up the moral nature of our species, and according as they are acted upon by adventitious circumstances, alter our condition, and produce all that wonderful variety of character which so strongly marks and characterizes the human family. Well, then, does it behoove even the wisest statesmen to approach this august subject with the utmost circumspection and diffidence ; its wanton agitation even is pregnant with mischief; but rash and hasty action threatens, in our opinion, the whole Southern country with irremediable ruin. The evil of yesterday's growth may be extirpated to-day, and the vigor of society may heal the wound ; but that which is the growth of ages, may require ages to remove. The Parliarm nt of Great Britain, with all its philanthropic zeal, guided by the wisdom and eloquence of such statesmen as Chatham, Fox, Burke, Pitt, Canning and Brougham, has never yet seriously agitated this question, in regard to the West India possessions. Revolutionary France, actuated by the most intemperate and phrenetic zeal for liberty and equality, attempted to legislate the free people of color, in the Island of St. Domingo, into all the rights and privileges of the whites ; and, but a season afterwards, convinced of her madness, she attempted to retrace her steps. But it was too late. The deed had been done. The bloodiest and most shocking insurrection ever recorded in the annals of history had broken out, and the whole Island was invoked in frightful carnage and anarchy, and France, in the end, has been stript " of the brightest jewel in her crown," the fairest and most valuable of all her colonial possessions. Since the revolution, France, Spain and Portugal, large owners of colonial possessions, have not only not abolished slavery in their colonies, but have not even abolished the slave trade in practice. In our Southern slaveholding country, the question of emancipation has never been seriously discussed in any of our legislatures, until the whole subject, under the most exciting circumstances, was, during the last winter, brought up for di,cussion in the Virginia Legislature, and plans of partial or total abolition were earnestly pressed upon the attention of that body. It is well known that, during the last summer, in the county of Southampton, in Virginia, a few slaves, led on by Nat Turner, rose in the night, and murdered, in the most inhuman and shocking 'manner, between sixty and seventy of the unsuspecting whites of that county. The news, of course, was rapidly diffused, and, with it, consternation and dismay were spread throughout the State, destroying, for a time, all feeling of security and confidence ; and, even when subsequent development had proved that the conspiracy had been originated by a fanatical negro preacher, (whose confessions prove, beyond a doubt, mental aberration,) and that this conspiracy embraced but few slaves, all of whom had paid the penalty of their crimes, still the excitement remained, still the repose of the commonwealth was disturbed, for the ghastly horrors of the Southampton tragedy could not immediately be banished from the mind—and rumor, too, with ber thousand tongues, was busily engaged in spreading tales of disaffection, plots, insurrections, and even massacres, which frightpned the AIL timid, and harassed and mortified the whole of the slaveholding population. During this period of excitement, when reason was almost banished from the mind, and the imagination was suffered to conjure up the most appalling phantoms; and picture to itself a crisis, in the vista of futurity, when the overwhelming numbers of the blacks would rise superior to all restraint, and involve the fairest portion of our land in universal ruin and desolation, we are not to wonder that, even in the lower part of Virginia, many should have seriously inquired if this supposed monstrous evil could not be removed from our bosom I Some looked to the removal of the free people of color, by the effo:ts of the Colonization Society, as an antidote to all our ills. Some were disposed to strik; at the rout of the evil : to call on the General Government for aid, and, by the labors of HerculeM, to extirpate the curse of slavery from the laid. Others again, who could not bear that Virginiashould stand towards the General Government (whose unconstitutional action she had ever been foremost to resist) in the attitude of a suppliant, looked forward to the legislative action of the State, as capable of achieving the desired result. In this state of excitement and unallayed apprehension, the Legislature met, and plans for abolition were proposed, and earnestly advocated in debate. Upon the impropriety of this debate, we beg leave to make a few observations. Any scheme of abolition, proposed so soon after the Southampton tragedy, would necessarily appear to be the result of that most inhuman massacre. Suppose the negroes, then, to be really anxious for their emancipation, no matter on what terms, would not the extraordinary effect produced on the Legislature by the Southampton insurrection, in all probability, have a tendency to excite another I And we must recollect, from the nature of things, no plan of abolition could act suddenly on the whole mass of slave popula- tion in the State. Mr. Randolph's was not even to commence its operation till E. Waiting, then, one year or more, until the excitement could be allayed, and the empire of reason could once more have been established, would surely have been productive of no injurious consequences ; and, in the mean time, a Legislature could have been selected, which would much better have represented the news and wishes of their constituents, on this vital question. Virginia could have ascertained the sentiments and wishes of other slaveholding States, whose concurrence, if not absolutely necessary, might be highly desirable, and should have been sought after and attended to, at least, as a matter of State courtesy. Added to this, the texture of the Legislature was nut of that character calculated to ensure the confidence of the people, in a movement of this kind. If ever there was a question debated in a deliberative body, which called for the most exalted talent, the longest and most tried experience, the utmost circumspection and caution, a complete exemption from prejudice ail(' undue excitement, where both are apt to prevail, an ardent and patriotic desire to advance the vital interests of the State, uncotnbined with mere desire for vain and ostentatious display, and with no view to party or geographical divisions, that question was the question of the abolition of slavery, in the Virginia Legislature. " Grave and reverend seniors," " the very fathers of the Republic," were indeed required, for the settlement of a question of such magnitude. It .appears, however, that the Legislature was composed of an unusual number of young and inexperienced members, elected in the month of April, previous to the Southampton massacre, and at a time of profound tranquillity and repose, when, of course, the people were not disposed to call from their retirement their most distingukhed and experienced citizens. We are very ready to admit, that in point of ability and eloquence, the debate transcended our expectations. One of the leading political papers in the State remarked, " We have never heard any debate so eloquent, so sustained, and in which so great a number of speakers had appeared, and commanded the attention of so numerous and intelligent an audience." 	 " Day after day, multitudes throng to the capital, and have been compensated by eloquence vfhich would have illustrated Rome or Athens." But, however fine might have been the rhetorical display, however ably some isolated points may have been discussed, still we affirm, with confidence, that no enlarged, wise and practical plan of operations was proposed by the- abolitionists. We will go farther, and assert that their arguments, in most cases, were of a wild and intemperate character, based upon false principles, and assumptions of the most vicious and alarming kind, subversive of the rights of property and the order and tranquillity of society, and portending to the whole slaveholding country—if they ever shall be followed out in practice—the most inevitable and ruinous consequences. Far be it, however, from us, to accuse the abolitionists in the Virginia Legislature of any settled or malevolent design to overturn or convulse the fabric of society. We have no deubt that they were acting conscientiously for the best ; but it often happens that frail, imperfect man, in the too ardent ant confident pursuit of imaginary good, runs upon his utter destruction. We have not formed our opinion lightly upon this subject ; we have given to the vital question of abolition the most mature and intense consideration which we are capable of bestowing, and we have come to the conclusion—a conclusion which seems to be sustained by facts and reasoning as irresistible as the demonstration of the mathematician—that every plan of emancipation and deportation which we can possibly conceive, is totally impracticable. We shall endeavor to prove that the attempt to execute these plans can only have a tendency to increase all the evils of which we complain, as resulting from slavery. If this be true, then the great question of abolition will necessarily be reduced to the question of emancipation, with a permission to remain, which, we think, can easily be shown to be utterly subversive of the interests, security and happiness of both the blacks and whit's, and consequently, hostile to every principle of expediency, morality, and religion. We have heretofore doubted the propriety, even, of too frequently agitating, especially in a public manner, the question of abolition, in consequence of the injurious effects which might be produced on the slave population. But the Virginia Legislature, in its zeal for discussion, boldly set aside all prudential considerations of this kind, and openly and publicly debated the subject, before the world. The seal has now been broken—the example has been set from a high quarter ; we shall, therefore, waive all considerations of a prudential character, which have hitherto restrained us, and. boldly grapple with the abolitionists and this great question. We fear not the result, so far as truth, justice and expediency alone are concerned. But we must be permitted to say that we do most deeply dread the effects of misguided philanthropy, and the marked, and, we bad like to have said, impertiner t intrusion in this matter, of those who have no interest at stake, and who have not intimate and minute knowledge of the whole subject, so absolutely necessary to wise action: Without further preliminary, then, we shall advance to the discussion of the question of abolition, noticing not only the plans proposed in the Virginia Legislature, but some others, likewise. And, as the subject of slavery has been considered in every point of %iew, and pronounced, in the abstract, at least, as entirely contrary to the law of nature, we propose taking, in * the first place, a hasty view of the origin of slavery, and point out the influence which it has exerted on the progress of civilization, and to this purpose it will be necessary to look back to other ages—cast a glance at nations differing from us in civilization and manners, and see whether it is possible to mount to the source of slavery. . Oriyin of Slavery, and its Effects on the Progress of Civilization. Upon an examination of the nature of man, we find him to be almost entirely the creature of circumstances—his habits and sentiments are, in a great measure, the growth of adventitious causes—hence the endless variety and condition of our species. We are almost ever disposed, however, to identify the course of nature with the progress of events in our own narrow contracted sphere ; we look upon any deviation from the constant round in which we have been spinning out the thread of our existence, as a departure from nature's great system, and, from a known principle of our nature, our first impulse is to condemn. It is thus that the man born and matured in the lap of freedom, looks upon slavery as unnatural and horrible ; and, if be be not instructed upon the subject, is sure to think that so unnatural a condition could never exist, but in few countries or ages, in violation of every law of justice or humanity ; and be is almost disposed to implore the divine wrath, to shower down the consuming fire of heaven on the Sodoms and Gomorrahs of the world, where this unjust practice prevails. But, when be examines into the past condition of mankind, he stands amazed at the fact which history develops to his view. " Almost every page of ancient history," says Wallace, in his Dissertation on the Numbers of Mankind, "demonstrates the great multitudes of slaves; which gives occasion to a melancholy reflection, that the world, when best peopled, was not a world of freemen, but of slaves." " And in every age and country, until times comparatively recent," says Hallam, "personal servitude appears to have been the lot of a large, perhaps the greater portion of mankind." Slavery was established and sanctioned by divine authority, among even the elect of heaven, the favored children of Israel. Abraham, the founder of this interesting nation, and the chosen servant of the Lord, was the owner of hundreds of slaves. That magnificent shrine, the Temple of Solomon, was reared by the bands of slaves. Egypt's venerable and enduring piles were reared by similar hands. Slavery existed in Assyria and Babylon. The ten tribes of Israel were carried off in bondage to the former by Shalmanezar, and the two tribes of Judah were subsequently carried in triumph by Nebuchadnezzar, to beautify and adorn the latter. Ancient Phoenicia and Carthage had slaves. The Greeks and Trojans, at the siege of Troy, had slaves. Athens, and Sparta. and Thebes, indeed the whole Grecian and Roman worlds, had more slaves than freemen. And in those ages which succeeded the extinction of the Roman empire in the West, "servi, or slaves," says Dr. Robertson, "seem to have been the most numerous class."	Even in this day of civilization, and the regeneration of governments, slavery is far from being confined to our hemisphere alone. The serf and labor rents prevalent throughout the whole of Eastern Europe, and a portion of Western Asia, and the ryot rents throughout the extensive and over populated countries of the East, and over the dominions of the Porte in Europe, Asia and Africa, but too conclusively * P. , Edinburgh edition. f Middle Ages, vol. , p. , Philapelphia edition. S SIN Robertson's Works, vol. , p. . mark the existence of slavery over these boundless regions. And when we turn to the continent of Africa, we find slavery, in all its most horrid forms, existing throughout its whole extent, the slaves being at least three times more numerous than the freemen ; so that, looking to the whole world, we may, even now, with confidence assert, that slaves, or those whose condition is infinitely worse, form by far the largest portion of the human race ! Well, then, may we here pause, and inquire a moment—for it is surely worthy of inquiry—how has slavery arisen and thus spread over our globe ? We shall not pretend to enumerate accurately, and in detail, all the causes which have led to shivery ; but we believe the principal may be summed up under the following heads : st. Laws of War ; d. State of Property and Feebleness of Government; ad. Bargain and Sale ; and th. Crime. st. Laws of War.—There is no circumstance which more honorably and creditably characterizes modern warfare, than the humanity with which it is waged, and the mildness with which captives are treated. Civilized nations, with but few exceptions, now act in complete conformity with the wise rule laid down by Grotius, " that in war we have a right only to the use of those means which have a connection morally necessary with the end in view." Consequently, we have no just right, where this rule is adhered to by our adversary, to enslave or put to death enemies non-combatant, who may be in our possession : for this, in modern times, among civilized nations, is not morally necessary to the attainment of the end in view. On the contrary, if such a practice were commenced now, it would only increase the calamities of the belligerents, by converting their wars into wars of extermination, or rapine and plunder, terminated generally with infinitely less advantage, and more difficulty to each of the parties. But humane and advantageous as this mitigated practice appears, we are not to suppose it universal, or that it has obtained in all ages. On the contrary, it is the growth of modern civilization, and has been confined, in a great measure, to civilized Europe and its colonies. Writers on the progress of society designate three stages in which man has been found to exist. First, the hunting or fishing state ; second, the pastoral ; third, agricultural. Man, in the hunting state, has ever been found to wage war in the most cruel and implacable manner, extermination being the object of the belligerent tribes. Never bas there been a finer field presented to the philosopher, for a complete investigation of the chaiacter of any portion of our species, than the whole American hemisphere presented, for the complete investigation of the character of savages, in the hunting and fishing state. Dr. Robertson has given us a most appalling description of the cruelties with which savage warfare was waged, throughout the whole continent of America, and the barbarous manner in which prisoners were everywhere put to death. Ile justly observes, that the bare description is enough to chill the heart with horror, wherever men have been accustomed, by mihier institutions, to respect their species, and to melt into tenderness at the sight of human sufferings. The prisoners are tied naked to a stake, but so as to be at liberty to move round it. All who are present—men, women and children rush upon them like furies. Every species of torture is applied, that the rancor of revenge can invent: some burn their limbs with red hot iron, some mangle their bodies with knives, others tear their flesh from their bones, pluck out their nails by the roots, and rend and twist their sinews. Nothing sets bounds to their rage but the dread of abridging the duration of their vengeance, by hastening the death of the sufferers ; and such is their cruel ingenuity in tormenting, that, by avoid- ing industriously to hurt any vital part, they often prolong the scene of anguish for several. days."* Let us now inquire into the cause of such barbarous practices, and we shall find that they must be imputed principally to the passion of revenge. In the language of the same eloquent writer whom we have just quoted, "in small communities, every man is touched with the injury or affront offered to the body of which he is a member, as if it were a personal attack on his own honor and safety. War, which, between extensive kingdoms, is carried on with little animosity, is prosecuted by small tribes with all the rancor of a private quarrel. When polished nations have obtained the glory of victory, or have acquired an addition of territory, they may terminate a war with honor. But savages are not satisfied, until they extirpate the community which is the object of their hatred. They fight not to conquer, but destroy." " The desire of vengeance is the first, and almost the only principle, which a savage instils into the minds of his children. The desire of vengeance, which takes possession of the hearts of savages, resembles the instinctive rage of an animal, rather than the passion of a man." . Unfortunately, too, interest conspires with the desire of revenge, to render savage warfare horrible. The wants of the savage, it is true, are few and simple ; but, limited as they are, according to their mode of life, it is extremely difficult to supply them. Hunting and fishing afford, at best, a very precarious subsistence. Throughout the extensive regions of America, population was found to be most sparsely settled ; hut, thin as it was, it was most wretchedly and scantily supplied with provisions. Under these circumstances, prisoners of war could * See Robertson's America, Phil. ed., vol. , p. . Ibid., vol. , pp. , . not be kept, for the feeding of them would be sure to produce a famine.* They would not be sent back to their tribe, for that would strengthen the enemy. They could not even make slaves of them, for their labor would have been worthless. Death, then, was, unfortunately, the punishment, which was prompted both by interest and revenge. And, accordingly, throughout the whole continent of America, we find, with but one or two exceptions, that this was the dreadful fate which awaited the prisoners of all classes, men, women and children. In fact, this has been the practice of war, wherever man was found in the first stages of society, living on the precarious subsistence of the chase. The savages of the Ihlands of Andaman, in the East, supposed by many to be lowest in the scale of civilization, of Van Diemen's Land, of New Holland, and of the Islands of the South l'acitic,f are all alike—they all agree in the practice of exterminating enemies, by the most perfidious and crud conduct, and, throughout many extensive regions, the horrid practice of feasting on the murdered prisoners prevailed./ •	" If a few Spaniards settled in any district, such a small addition of supernumerary mouths soon exhausted their scanty store, and brought on famine."—Robert,on, p. . t Captain Cook says, of the natives in the neighborhood of Queen Charlotte's Sound, "if I had followed the advice of all our pretended friends, I might have extirpated the whole race, for the people of each hamlet or village, by turns, hpplie d to me to dest.o) the other	 It appears to me that the New Zealanders mutt live in perpetual appreheallion of being destroyed by each other." " Among the Iroquois," says Dr. Robeitson," the phrase by which they express their resolution of making war against an enemy is, let us go and eat that nation.' If they so:ie t the aid of a neighboring tribe, they invite it to eat broth made of air flesh of their enemies.'" Among the Abnaki', accotdingto the " Lrttres Edif. et Curietne," the chief, after dividing his warriors into parties, says to each, to you is What is there, let us ask, which is calculated to arrest this horrid practice, and to communicate an impulse towards ci‘i- lization	Strange as it may sound in modern ears, it is the institution of property and the existence of slavery. Judging from the universality of the fact, we may assert that domestic slavery seems to be the only means of fixing the wanderer to the soil, moderating his savage temper, mitigating the horrors of war, and abolishing the practice of murdering the captives. In the pure hunting state, man has little idea of property, and consequently there is little room for distinction, except what arises from personal qualities. People in this state retain, therefore, a high sense of equality and independence. It is a singular fact., that the two extremes of society are most favorable to liberty and equality—the most savage, and the most refined and enlightened — the former, in consequence of the absence of the institution of property, and the latter from the diffusion of knowledge, and the consequent capability of self-government. The former is characterized by a wild, licentious independence, totally subversive of all order and tranquillity ; and the latter by a well-ordered, well-established liberty, which, while it leaves to each the enjoyment of the fruits of his industry, secures him against the law less violence and rapine of his neighbors. Throughout the whole American continent, this equality and savage independence seem to have prevailed, except in the comparatively great kingdoms of Mexico and Peru, where the right to property was established. So soon as the private right to property is established, given such a hamlet to eat, to you such a village," etc. Captain Conk, in his third voyage, says of the New Zealanders, " Perhaps the desire of making a good meal (on prisoners) is no small induct Meat " to go to war. slavery commences ; and with the institution of slavery, the cruelties of war begin to diminish. The chief finds it to his interest to make slaves of his captives, rather than put them to death. This system commences with the shepherd state, and is consummated in the agricultural. Slavery, therefore, seems to be the chief means of mitigating the horrors of war. Accordingly, wherever, among barbarous nations, they have so far advanced in civilization as to understand the use wlich may be made of captives, by converting them into slaves, there the cruelties of war are found to be lessened. Throughout the whole continent of Africa, in consequence of the universal prevalence of slavery, war is not conducted with the same barbarous ferocity as by the American Indian. And hence it happens that some nations become most a uel to those whom they would most wish to favor. Thus, on the borders of Persia, some of the tribes of Tartars massacre all the true believers who fall into their hands, but preserve heretics and infidels, because their religion forbids them to make slaves of true believers, and allows them to use or sell all others, at their pleasure.* In looking to the history of the world, we find that interest, and interest alone, has been enabled successfully to war against the fiercer passion of revenge. The only instance of mildness in war, among the savages of North America, results from the operation of interest. Sometimes, when the tribe has suffered great loss of numbers, and stands very much in need of recruits, the prisoner is saved, and adopted (says Robertson) as a member of the nation. Pastoral nations require but few slaves, and, consequently, they save but few prisoners for this purpose. Agricultural require more, and this state •	Tacitas tells us that civil wars are always the most cruel, because the prisoners are not made slaves. is the most advantageous to slavery. Prisoners of war are generally spared by such nations, in consideration of the use which may be made of their labor. It is curious, in this respect. to contemplate the varied success with which, under various circumstances, the principle of self-interest combats that of vengeance. The barbarians who overran the Roman Empire existed principally in the pastoral state. They brought along s lib them their wives and children, and consequently they required extensive regions for their support, and but few slaves. We find, accordingly, they waged a most cruel, exterminating war, not even sparing women and children. " Hence," says Dr. Robertson, in his preliminary volume to the History of Charles V., " if a man were called to fix upon a period in the history of the world, doling which the condition of the human race was most calamitous and afflicted, he would, without hesitation, name that which elapsed from the death of Theodosius the Great, (A.D. .) to the reign of Alboinus in Lombardy." (A.D. .) At the last mentioned epoch, the barbarian inundations spent them& Ives, and, consequently, repose was given to the world. Slavery was very common at the siege of Troy ; but, in consequence of the very rude state of agriculture prevalent in those days. and the great reliance plactd on the spontaneous productions of the earth, the same number of slaves was not require d as in subsequent ages, when agriculture had made greater advances. Hence we find the laws of war of a very cruel character, the l rineiple of revenge triumphing over t very other. 'I hese are the evils, we are informed by Homer, that follow the capture of a town : "The men are kill( d, the city is burned to the ground, the women and children of all ranks are carried off for slaves." (Iliad, L. .) Again : " Wretch that I am," says the venerab:e Priam, " what evil does the great Jupiter bring on me in my old age ! bly sons slain, my daughters dragged into slavery, violence pervading even the chambers of my palace, and the very infants dashed against the ground, in horrid sport of war. I myself, slain in the vain office of defence, shall be the prey of my own dogs, perhaps, in the very palace gates!" (Iliad, L. .) In after times, during the glorious days of the republics of both Greece and Rome, the wants of man had undergone an enlargement; agriculture had been pushed to a high state of improvement, population became more delve, and consequently a more abundant production, and more regular and constant application of labor, became necessary. At this period, slaves were in great demand, and, therefore, the prisoners of.war were generally spared, in order that they might be made slaves. And this mildness did not arise so much from their civilization, as from the great demand for slaves. All the Roman generals, even the mild Julius, were sufficiently cruel to put to death, when they did not choose to make slaves of the captives. Hence, as cruel as were the Greeks and Romans in war, they were much milder than the surrounding barbarous nations. In like manner, the wars in Africa have been made, perhaps, more mild by the dare trade than they would otherwise have been. Instances are frequent, where the prisoner has been immediately put to death, because a purchaser could not be found. The reFort of the Lords, iu , speaks of a female captive in Africa, for whom an anker of brandy had been offered ; but before the messenger arrived, her heud had been cut off. Sir George Young saved the life of a beautiful boy, about five years old at Sierra Leone. Tln child was about to he thrown into the river by the person who bad him to sell, because he was too young to be an olij-ct of trade; but Sir George offered a quarter cask of Madeira for him, which was accepted.* A •See Edward's West Indies, vol. , book , chap. . multitude of such instances might easily be cited, from commanders of vessels and travellers, who have ever visited Africa. And thus do we find, by a review of the history of the world, that slavery alone, which addresses itself to the principle of self-interest, is capable of overcoming that inordinate desire of vengeance which glows in the breast of the savage; and, therefore, we find the remark made by Voltaire, in his Phi. Die., that "slavery is as ancient as war, and war as human nature," is not strictly correct: for many wars have been too cruel to admit of slavery. Let us now close this head, by an inquiry into the justice of slavery, flowing from the laws of war. And here we may observe, in the first place, that the whole of the ancient world, and all nations of modern times verging on a state of barbarism, never for a moment doubted this right. All history proves that they looked upon slavery as a mild punishment, in comparison with what they bad a right to inflict. And, so far from being conscience-stricken, when they inflicted the punishment of death or slavery, they seemed to glory in the severity of the punishment, and to be remorseful only when, from some cause, they had not inflicted the worst. " Why so tender-hearted," says Agamemnon to Menelaus, seeing him hesitate, while a Trojan of high rank, who had the misfortune to be disabled, by being thrown from his chariot, was begging for life, "are you and your horse so beholden to the Trojans ? Let not one of them escape destruc- •	tion from our hands—no, not the child within his mother's womb. Let all perish unmourned." And the poet even gives his sanction to this inhumanity of Agamemnon, who was never characterized as inhuman : " It was justly spoken, (says Homer,) and he turned his brother's mind." And the suppliant was murdered by tie band of the king of men. "When the unfortunate monarch of Troy came to beg the body oehis heroic son, (Ilector,) we find the conduct of Achilles marked by a superior spirit of generosity. Yet, in the very act of granting the pious request, he doubts if he is quite excusable to the soul of his departed Mend, for remitting the extremity of vengeance which he had meditated, and restoring the come to secure the rites of burial."* To ask them, whether men, with notions similar to these, had a right to kill or enslave the prisoners, would almost be like gravely inquiring into the right of tigers and lions to kill each other, and devour the weaker beasts of the forest. if we look to the republics of Greece and Rome, in the days of their glory and civilization, we shall find no one doubting the right to make slaves of those taken in war.	No legislator of anti- quity," says Voltaire, "ever attempted to abrogate slavery on the contrary, the people the most enthusiastic for liberty—the Athenians, the Lacedemonians, the Romans, and the Carthagenians—were those who enacted the most severe laws against their serfs. Society was so accustomed to this degradation of the species, that Epictetus, who was assuredly worth more than his master, never expresses any surprise at his being a slave. Julius Caesar has been reckoned one of the mildest and most clement military chieftains of antiquity, and yet there is very little doubt, that the principal object in the invasion of Britain, was to procure slaves for the Roman slave markets. When he left Britain, it became necessary to collect together a large fleet, for the purpose of transporting his captives across the channel. Ile sometimes ordered the captive chiefs to be executed, and he butchered the whole of Cato's Senate, when he became master of Utica. Paulus Etnilius, acting under the special orders of the Roman Senate, •	See Mit ford's Greece, vol. , chap. , ism . t See Philosophical Dictionary, title Slaves.* laid all Epirus waste, and brought , captives in chains to Italy, all of whom were sold in the Roman slave markets. Augustus Caesar was considered one of the mildest, must pacific, and most politic of the Roman Emperors ; yet, when he rooted out the nation of the Salassii, who dwelt upon the Alps, he sold , persons into slavery. Cato was a large owner of slaves, most of whom he had purchased in the slave markets at the sale of prisoners of war.* Aristotle, the greatest philosopher of antiquity, and a man of as capacious mind as the world ever produced, was a warm advocate of slavery—maintaining that it was reasonable, necessary, and natural; and, accordingly, in his model of a republic, there were to be comparatively few freemen served by many slaves If we turn from profane history to Holy Writ—that sacred fountain whence are derived those pure precepts, and holy laws and regulations by which the Christian world has ever been governed—we shall find that the children of Israel, under the guidance of Jehovah, massacred or enslaved their prisoners of war. So far from considering slavery a curse, they considered it a punishment much too mild, and regretted, from this cause alone, its infliction. The children of Israel, when they marched upon the tribes of Canaan, were in a situation very similar to the northern invaders who overran the Roman Empire. They bad their wives and children along with them, and wished to make Canaan their abode. Extermination, therefore, became necessary ; and accordingly, we find that the Gibeonites alone, who practised upon the princes of Israel by a fraud, escaped the dreadful scene of carnage. They were enslaved, and so far from regretting their lot, they seem to have delighted in it and the children of Israel, instead of mourning over the des- •	See Plutarch's Lives, Cato the Elder. f Aristotle's Politics, book , chap. . tiny of the enslaved Gibeonites, murmured that they were not massacred—" and all the congregation murmured against the princes." And the answer of the princes was, " we will even let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath which we swear unto them." "But let them be hewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregation, as the princes bad promised them."* But it is needless to multiply instances farther to illustrate the ideas of the ancient world in regard to their rights to kill or enslave at pleasure the unfortunate captive. Nor will we now cite the example of Africa, the great storehouse of slavery for the modern world, which so completely sustains our position in regard to the opinions of men on this subject, farther than to make an extract from a speech delivered in the British House of Commons, by Mr. Henniker, in , in which the speaker asserts that a letter had been received by George from one of the most powerful of African potentates, the Emperor of Dahomey, which letter admirably exemplifies an African's notions about the right to kill or enslave prisoners of war. " He (Emperor of Dahomey) stated," said Mr. H., " that as he understood King George was the greatest of white kings, so he thought himself the greatest of black ones. He asserted that he could lead , men armed into the field, that being the pursuit to which all his subjects were bred, and the women only staying at home to plant and manure the earth. He had himself fought two hundred and nine battles, with great reputation and success, and had conquered the great king of Ardah. The king's head was to this day preserved with the flesh and hair ; the heads of his generals were distinguished by being placed on each side of the doors of their Fetiches ; with the heads of the inferior officers they paved the space before the doors; and the heads •Sde th chapter of Joshua. of the common soldiers formed a sort of fringe or outwork round the walk of the palace. Since this war, he had experienced the greatest good fortune, and he hoped in good time to be able to complete the out walls of all his great houses, to the number of seven, in the same manner:'* Mr. Norris, who visited this empire in , actually testifies to the truth of this letter. He found the palace of the Emperor an immense assemblage of cane and mud tents, enclosed by a high wall. The skulls and jaw bones of enemies slain in battle, formed the favorite ornaments of the palaces and temples. The king's apartments were paved, and the walls and roof stuck over with these horrid trophies. And if a farther supply appeared at any time desirable, he announced to his general, that " his house wanted thatch," when a war for that purpose was immediately undertaken Who can for a moment be so absurd as to imagine that such a prince as this could doubt of his right to make slaves in war, when he gloried in being able to thatch his houses with the heads of his enemies ? Who could doubt that any thing else than a strong sense of interest, would ever put an end to such barbarity and ferocity ? Our limits will not allow us to be more minute, however interesting the subject. And, therefore, we will now examine into the right, according to the law of nations—the strict jut gentium—and we shall find all the writers agree in the justice of slavery, under certain circumstances. Grotius says that, as the law of nature permits prisoners of war to be killed, so the same law has introduced the right of snaking them slaves, that the captors, in %iew to the benefit arising from the labor or sale of their prisoners, might be induced to spare them. From •	See Hazlitz's British Eloquence. vol. . t See Family Library, No. . p. . L , chap. , sec. . Book , chap. . the general practice of nations before the time of Puffendorf, be came to the conclusion that slavery has been established " by the free consent of the opposing parties." Rutherforth, in his Institutes, says, " since all the members of a nation, against which a just war is made, are bound to repair the damages that gave occasion to the'war, or that are done in it, and likewise to make satisfaction for the expenses of carrying it. on ; the law of nations will allow those who are prisoners to be made slaves by the nation which takes them ; that so their labor, or the price for which they are sold, may discharge these demands." But he most powerfully combats the more cruel doctrine laid down by Grotius, that the master has a right to take away the life of his slave. Bynkershoek contends for the higher right of putting prisoners of war to death " We may, however, (enslave,) if we please," ho adds, " and indeed we do sometimes still exercise that right upon those who enforce it against us. Therefore the Dutch are in the habit of selling to the Spaniards as slaves, the Algerines, Tunisians, and Tripolitans, whom they take prisoners in the Atlafitic or Mediterranean. Nay, in the year , the States General gave orders to their admiral to sell as slaves all the pirates that be should take. The same thing was done in . Vattel, the most humane of all the standard authors on national law, asks—" are prisoners of war to be made slaves I" To which he answers, " Yes; in cases which give a right to kill them, when they have rendered themselves personally guilty of some crime deserving death." Even Locke, who has so ably explored all the faculties of the mind, and who so nobly stood forth against the monstrous and absurd doctrines of Sir Robert Filmer, and the * Book, chap. , sec. . t Treatise on the Law of War, Du Ponceau's Ed. p. . See Law of Nations, book , clap. , sec. . passive submissionists of his day, admits the right to make slaves of prisoners whom we might justly have killed. Speaking of a prisoner who has forfeited his life, be says, " he to whom he has forfeited it may, when he has him in his power, delay to take it, and make use of him to his own service, and he dues him no injury by it." Blackstone, it would seem, denies the right to make prisoners of war slaves; for be says we had no right to enslave, unless we had the right to kill, and we had no right to kill, unless " in cases of absolute necessity, for self-defence ; and it is plain this absolute necessity did not subsist, since the victor did not actually kill him, but made him prisoneet Upon this we have to remark, st, that Judge Blackstone here speaks of slavery in its pure, unmitigated form, " whereby an unlimited power is given to the master over the life and fortune of the slave."	Slavery scarcely exists any where in this form, and if it did, it would be a continuance of a state of war, as Rousseau justly obser•es, b.•tween the captive and the captor. Again : Black-stole, in his argument upon this subject, seems to misunderstand the grounds upon which civilians place the justification of slavery, as arising from the laws of war. It is well known that most of the horrors of war spring from the principle of retaliation, and not, as Blackstone supposes, universally from "absolute necessity." If two civilized nations of modern times are at war, and one hangs up, without any justifiable cause, all of the enemy who fall into its possession, the utber does not hesitate to inflict the same punishment upon an equal number of its prisoners. It is the "lex talionis," and nut the absolute necessity, which gives rise to this. The colonists of this country up to the revolution, during, *On Civil Government, chap. . f See Tucker's Blackone, vol. , p. . t J=E:gone's Commentaries, in loco chat*. and even since that epoch, have put to death the Indian captives, whenever the Indians had been in the habit of massacreing indiscriminately. It was not so much absolute necessity ex the law of retaliation, which justified this practice ; and, the ci‘ilians urge that the greater right includes the lesser ; and, consequently, the right to kill involves the more humane and more useful right of enslaving. In point of fact, it would seem that the Indians were often enslaved by the colonists.* Although we find no distinct mention made, by any of the hiitotians, of the particular manner in which this slavery arose, yet it is not difficult to inf..r that it must have arisen from the laws of war, being a commutation of the punishment of death for slavery. Again : If the nation with which you are at war makes slaves of all your citizens falling into its poisession, surely you have the right to retaliate and do so likewise. It is the "lex taliftnis," and not absolute necessity, which justifies you; and, if you should choose from policy to waive your right, your ability to do so would not, surely, prove that you had no right at all to enslave. Such a doctrine as this would prove that the rights of belligerents were in the inverse ratio of their strength— a doctrine which, pushed to the extreme, would always reduce the hostile parties to a precise equality—which is a perfect absurdity. If we were to suilpicAe a civilized nation in the heart of Africa, surrounded by such princes as the King of Dahomey, there is no doubt that such a nation would be justifiable in killing or enslaving at its option, in time of war, and if it did neither, it would relinquish a perfect tight.t We have now consi- *Sri, Tucker's Blackstone, vol. , Appendix, note H. t We shall hereafter see that our colony at Lit ei is may, at some future day, be placed in an extremely embarrassing condition from this very cause. It may not in future wars have strength sufficient to forego the exercise of the right of killing or enslaving, and if it dered the most fruitful source of slavery—laws of war—and shall proceed more briefly to the consideration of the other three which we have mentioned, taking up- . State of Property and Feebleness of Government.—In tracing the manners and customs of a people who have emerged from a state of barbarism, and examining into the nature and character of their institutions, we find it of the first importance to look to the condition of property, in order that we may conduct our inquiries with judgment and knowledge. The character of the government, in spite of all its forms, depends more on the condition of property, than on any one circumstance beside. The relations which the different classes of society bear towards each other, the distinction into high and low, noble and plebeian, in fact, depend almost exclusively upon the state of property. It may be with truth affirmed, that the exclusive owners of the property ever have been, ever will, and perhaps ever ought to be, the virtual rulers of mankind. If, then, in any age or nation, there should be but one species of property, and that should be exclusively owned by a portion of citizens, that portion would become inevitably the masters of the residue. And if the government should be so feeble as to leave each one, in a great measure, to protect himself, this circumstance would have a tendency to throw the property into the hands of a few, who would rule with despotic sway over the many. And this was the condition of Europe during the middle ages, under what was termed the feudal system. There was, in fact, but one kind of property, and that consisted of land• Nearly all the useful arts had perished—commerce and manufactures could scarcely be said to exist at all, and a dark night have the strength, it may not have the mildness and humanity. Revenge is sweet, and the murder of a brother or father, and the slavery of a mother or sister, will not easily be forgotten. of universal ignorance enshrouded the human mind. The landholders of Europe, the feudal aristocrats, possessing all the property, necessarily and inevitably as fate itself, usurped all the power ; and in consequence of the feebleness of government, and the resulting necessity that each one should do justice for himself, the laws of primogeniture and entails were resorted to as a device to prevent the weakening of families by too great a subdivision or alienation of property, and from the same cause, small alludiul propriett,rs were obliged to give up their small estates to some powerful baron or large landholder, in consideration of protection, which he would be unable to procure in any other manner.* Moreover, the great landholders of those days had only one way of spending their estates, even when they were not barred by entails, and that was by employing a large number of retainers—for they could not then spend their estates tis spendthrifts generally squander them, in luxuries and manufactures, in consequence of the rude state of the arts—a' the necessities of man being supplied directly from the farms ;t and the great author of the Wealth of Nations has most philosophically remarked, that few great estates have been spent from la nevolence alone. And the people of those days could find no employment except on the land, and, consequently, were entirely derendant on the landlords, subject to their caprices and whims, paid according to their pleasure, and entirely * Upon this subject, see Robertson's st vol. Hist. Charles V.. Hal. lam's Middle Ages, Gilbert Stuart on the Progress of Society, and all the writes on feudal tenures. t" There is not a vest.ge to be discovered, for several centuries, of any considerable manufactures. . . . . Rich men kept domestic artisans among their servants; even kings, in the ninth century, had their clothes made by the women upon their farms."--liallarde Middle Ages,	, pp. Utah/lad. editics. under their control; in fine, they were slaves complete. Even the miserable cities of the feudal times were not independent, but were universally subjected to the barons or great landholders, whose powerful protection against the lawless rapine of the times, could only be purchased by an entire surrender of liberty.* Thus the property of the feudal ages was almost exclusively of one kind. The feebleness of government, together with the laws of primogeniture and entails, threw that property into the hands of a few, and the difficulty of alienation, caused by the absence of all other species of property, had a tendency to prevent that change of possession which we so constantly witness in modern times. Never was there, then, perhaps, so confirmed and so permanent an aristocracy as that of the feudal ages ; it naturally sprang from the condition of property and the obstacles to its alienation. The aristocracy alone embraced in those days the freemen of Europe ; all the rest were slaves, call them by what name you please, and doomed by the unchanging laws of nature, to remain so, till commerce and manufactures had arisen, and with them had s.,rung into existence a new class of capitalists, the tiers etat of Europe, whose existence first called for new forms of government, and whose exertions either have or will revolutionize the whole of Europe. A revolution in the state of property is always a premonitory symptom of a revolution in government and in the state of society, and without the one you cannot meet with permanent success in the other. The slave of southern Europe could never have been emancipated, except through the agency of commerce and manufactures, and the consequent rapid rise of cities, accompanied with a more regular and better protected industry, producing a vast augmentation in the products which administer to our neces- •	Upon this subject, see both Hallam and Robesiokon. sities and comforts, and increasing, in a proportionate degree, the sphere of our wants and desires. In the same way we shall show, before bringing this article to a close, that if the slaves of our southern country shall ever be liberated, and suff;.red to remain among us, with their present limited wants and longing desire for a state of idleness, they will fall, inevitable, by the nature of things, into a state of slavery, from which no government could rescue them, unless by a radical change of all their habits, and a most awful and fearful change in the whole system of property throughout the country. The state of property, then, may fairly be considered a very fruitful source of slavery. It was the most fruitful source during the feudal ages—it is the foundation of slavery throughout the north-eastern regions of Europe and the populous countries of the continent of Asia. We are even disposed to think, contrary to the general opinion, that the condition of property operated prior to the customs of war in the production of slavery. 'We are fortified in this opinion, by the example of Mexico and Peru in South America. In both of these empires, certainly the farthest advanced and most populous of the new world, " private property," says Dr. Robertson, "was perfectly understood, and established in its full extent." The most abject slavery existed in both these countries; and what still farther sustains our position, it very nearly, especially in Mexico, resembled that of the feudal ages. The great body of the people was in a most humiliating state. A considerable number, known by the name of Mayeques, nearly resembling the condition of those peasants who, under various denominations, were considered, during the prevalence of the feudal system, as instruments of labor attached to the soil. Others were reduced to the lowest form of subjection, that of domestic servitude, and felt the utmost rigor of that wretched state."* an .	.	. . Now, slavery in both these countries, must have arisen from the state of property, for the laws of war are entirely too cruel to admit of captives among the Mexicans. " They fought," says Dr. Robertson, " to gratify their vengeance, by shedding the blood of their enemies—no captive was ever ransomed or spared." And the Peruvians, though much milder in war, seem not to have made slaves of their captives, though we must confess that there is great difficulty in explaining their great comparative clemency to prisoners in war, unless by supposing they were made slaves.f We have no doubt, likewise, if we could obtain sufficient insight into the past history and condition of Africa, that slavery would be found to have arisen in many of those countries, rather from the state of property than the laws of war; for even to this day, many of the African princes are too cruel and sanguinary in war to forego the barbarous pleasure of murdering the captives, and yet slavery exists in their dominions to its full extent. We will not here pause to examine into the justice or injustice of that species of slavery, which is sure to arise from a faulty distribution of property, because it is the inevitable result of the great law of necessity, which itself has no law, and, consequently, about which it is utterly useless to argue. We will, therefore, proceed at once to the third cause assigned for slavery—bargain and sale. . Cause of Slavery, Bargain and Sale.—This source of slavery might easily be reduced to that which depends on the •	Robertson's America, vol. , p. . t We are sorry we have not the means of satisfactorily investigating this subject If slavery was e,tab-ishod among them from the laws of war, it would be one of the most triumphant examples which history affords of the effect of slavery, in mitigating the cruelties of war ; for it is a singular fact, that the Peruvians were the only people .	..	l• 		.•	• state of property, but for the sake of perspicuity, we prefer keeping them apart: Adam Smith has well observed, that there is a strong propensity in man " to truck, barter, and exchange, one thing for another," and both the parties generally intend to derive an advantage from the exchange. This disposition seems to extend to every thing susceptible of being impressed with the character of property or exchangeable value, or from which any great or signal advantage may be derived—it has been made to extend, at time=, to life and liberty. Generals, in time of war, have pledged their lives for the performance of their contracts. At the conclusion of peace, semi-barbarous nations have been in the habit of interchanging hostages—generally the sons of princes and noblemen—for the mutual observance of treaties, whose lives were forfeited by a violation of the plighted faith and in all ages, where the practice has not been interdicted by law, indi‘iduals have occasionally sold their own liberty, or that of others dependent on them. We have already seen how the small allodial possessors, during the feudal ages, were obliged to surrender their lands and liberty to some powerful baron, for that protection which could be procured in no other manner. Throughout the whole ancient world, the sale of one's own liberty, and even that of his children, was common. The non-payment of debts, or failure to comply with contracts, frequently subjected the unfortunate offender to slavery, in both Greece and Rome. Instances of slavery from bargain and sale, occur in Scripture. Joseph was sold to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver, and carried down to Egypt in slavery. But this was a black and most unjustifiable act on the part of his envious brothers. There are other parts of Scripture, where the practice of buying and selling slaves seems to be justified. The Hebrew laws permitted the selling of even the Jews into slavery for six years. " If thou * buy a Hebrew servant, six years lie shall serve, and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing." And if the servant chose, at the expiration of six years, to remain with his master as a slave, he might do so on having his ear bored through with An awl. It seems fathers could se.l their children —thus " And if a man sell his daughter to be a maid servant, she shall not go out as the men servants do."* An unlimited right to purchase slaves from among foreigners seems to have been granted, whether they had been slaves or not before the purchase ; thus, in the twenty-fifth chapter of Loiticus, we find the following injunction : " Both thy bond-men and bondmaids which thou shalt have, shall be of the heathen that are round about you; of them shell ye buy bundmen and bundmaids. Moreover, of the children of strangers who sijourn among you, of them shall ye buy, and of the families that are with you, which they begat in your land; and they shall be your possession. And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession ; they shall be your bondpneu.forever." We may well suppose that few persons would ever be induced to sell themselves or children into slavery, unless under very severe pressure from want. Accordingly, we find the practice most prevalent among the most populous and the most savage nations, where the people are most frequently suhjeeted to dearths and famines. Thus, in Ilindostan and China, there is nothing more frequent than this practice of selling liberty. " Every year," said a Jesuit who resided in Ilindostan, " we baptize a thousand children whom their parents can no longer feed, or who being likely to die, are sold to us by their mothers, in order to get rid of them." The great legislator of IIindotan. Menu, in his ordinances, which are described by Sir William Jones, justifies this practice in time of •	Soo st chapter of Exodus.	t , , and very. scarcity. " Ajigarta," says Menu, in one of his ordinances, " dying with hunger, was going to destroy his own son by selling him for some cattle ; yet he was guilty of no crime, for he only sought a remedy against famishing." " In China," says Duhalde, "a man sometimes sells his son, and even himself and wife, at a very moderate price. The common mode is to mortgage themselves with a condition of redemption, and a great number of men and maid servants are thus bound in a family." There is no doubt but at this mom-nt. ii every densely populated country, hundreds would be willing to sell themselves into slavery if the laws would permit them, whenever they were pressed by famine. Ireland seems to be the country of modern Europe most subjected to these dreadful visitations. Euppose, then, we reverse the vision of the Kentucky Senator,* and imagine that Ireland could be severed during those periods of distress from the Britannic isle, and could float, like the fabled island of Delos, across the ocean, and be placed by our side, and our laws should inhumanely forbid a single son of Erin from entering our territory, unless as a slave, to be treated exactly like the African, is there any man, acquainted with the state of the Irish, in years of scarcity, who would doubt for a moment, but that thousands, much as this oppressed people are in love with liberty, would enter upon this bard condition, if they could find purchasers. Indeed, the melancholy fact has too often occurred in Ireland, of individuals committing crimes merely for the purpose of being thrown into the houses of correction, where they could obtain bread and water ! Among savages, famines are much more dreadful than among ckilized nations, where they are provided against by previous accumulation and commerce. Dr. Robertson has given us a glowing, and no doubt, correct picture, of the * Mr. Clay, in the debate on his resolutions on the tariff . dreadful ravages of famine among the North American Indians, and on such occasions, we are informed by the " Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuse," that the ties of nature are no longer binding. A father will sell his son for a knife or hatchet* But, unfortunately, among savages in the hunting state, scarcely any one can do more than maintain himself and one or two children, and therefore cannot afford to keep a slave. If we turn to Africa, we shall find this cause of slavery frequently operating with all its power ; and, accordingly, Parke has ranked famine as the second among the four causes which he assigns for slavery in Africa. "'[here here are many instances of freemen," says be, " voluntarily surrendering up their liberty to save their lives. During a great scarcity, which lasted for three years, in the countries of the Gambia, great numbers of people became slaves in this manner. Dr. Laidley assured me, that at that time, many freemen came and begged with great earnestness, to be put upon his slave chain, to save them from perishing with hunger. Large families are very often exposed to abolute want, and as the parents have almost unlimited authority over their children, it frequently happens in all parts of Africa, that some of the latter are sold to purchase provisions for the rest of the family. When I was at Jarra, Damon Jumma pointed out to me three young slaves which he had purchased in this manner."f Bruce, in his travels in Africa, saw whole villages and districts of country depopulated by the famines which had visited them, and gives us a most appalling picture of the walking skeletons and lawless rapine which we every where exhibited during those frightful periods of distress. We cannot wonder, then, under these circumstances, that famine should be a •	Tom. . f Parkes Travels in Africa, chap. , p. , N. Y. ed. fruitful source of slavery, by giving rise to a sale of liberty for the preservation of life. The remark of Judge Blackstone, as to this kind of slavery, is known to every one—that every sale implies a "quid pro quo"—but that, in the case of slavery, there can be no equivalent, no quid pro quo—for nothing is an equivalent for liberty ; and even the purchase money, or the price, whatever it might be, would instantly belong to the master of the slave.* Upon this we would remark, that Blackstone seems to have bis attention fixed exclusively on those countries where every man can easily maintain himself, and where, consequently, his life can never be in jeopardy from want. If there is any country in the world to which this argument will apply, that country is ours. We believe every man here may obtain a subsistence, either by his own exertions, or by the aid of the poor rates. But this is far from being the case with semi-barbarous or densely populated countries. Again : Blackstone alludes to that pure state of slavery, where a man's life, liberty, and property, are at the mercy of his master. That is far from being the condition of slavery now. In most parts of the world the slave is carefully protected in life, limb, and even in a moderate share of liberty, by the policy of the laws ; and his nourishment and subsistence are positively enjoined. Where this is the case, we can imagine many instances in which liberty might have an equivalent. Who for a moment can doubt but that the abundant daily supplies of subsistence, con-isting of wholesome meat, bread, and frequently vegetables and refreshing drinks besides, which are furnished to our slaves, are more than an equiva!ent for the liberty of the Chinese laborer, who exhausts himself with hard labor—feeds on his scanty and unseasoned rice—tastes no wholesome meat from the beginning to tLe end of the * Tucker's Blackstone, vol. , p. . toilsome year—sees his family frequently perishing before hi eyes, or more cruel still, consents himself to be the execu tioner, in order that he may release them from the intolerabli torments of unsatisfied wants, and who, even in seasons o ordinal y supply, fishes up with eagerness the vilest garbag from the river or canal, and voraciously devours meat which with us, would be left to be fed on by the vultures of the air The fact is, the laborer in this hard condition is alreadp slave, or rather in a situation infinitely worse than slavery—he is subjected to all the hardships and degradation of the slave, and derives none of the advantages. In the case o famine, the equivalent seems to be life for liberty ; and whet this is the case, although the philosopher may conside death as preferable to slavery, "yet," says Parke, "the poo negro, when fainting with hunger, thinks, like Esau of old behold I am at the point to die, and what profit shall thi birthright do to me ?'" The reason why persons do not mor frequently sell themselves into slavery is, because they ar forbidden by the laws, or can find no purchasers. So fal from persons not selling their liberty because there is ni equivalent, it is directly the contrary in most countries; tb price or equivalent, consisting of continued support, protec tion, &c., is too great—more than can be afforded. The capi talist in Great Britain could not afford to purchase the opera tive, and treat him as we do the slave ; the price paid, th quid pro quo of Blackstone, would be more than the libert would be worth. We have no doubt, if the English law were to allow of slavery, such as we have in this country there would be many more persons wishing to sell thei liberty than of those wishing to buy ! But whether the re marks of Judge Blackstone are correct in theory or not, is matter of no practical importance ; for, in point of fact., as W have shown by undeniable testimony, bargain and sale harp ever been a most fruitful source of slavery in ancient times, and among many people of the present day ; and, consequently, we could not pretermit it in a general survey of the sources of slavery. We shall now proceed to a consideration of the last mentioned source of slavery. . Crime.—AIl governments, even those of the states of our confederacy, have ever been consider, d as perfectly justifiable in enslaving for crime. All our penitentiaries are erected upon this principle, and slavery in them, of the most abject and degrading character, endures for a certain number of months, years. or for life, according to the offence. In South America and Russia, the criminals are frequently sentenced to slavery in the mines, and in France and England, to the gallies and work-houses ; but as it is principally with domestic slavery that we are concerned in this article, we shall not consider farther that which is of a public character. Throughout the ancient world, domestic slavery, arising from crime, seems to have been very common. We have already spoken of the slavery which was inflicted frequently on insolvent debtors in both Greece and Rome. In Africa, too, we find insolvency a very frequent source of slavery. "Of all the offences," says Parke, " if insolvency may be so called, to which the laws of Africa have affixed the punishment of slavery, this is the most common. A negro trader commonly contracts debts on some mercantile speculation, either from his neighbors to purchase such articles as will sell to advantage in a distant market, or from the European traders on the coast—pa) ment to be made in a given time. In both cases, the situation of the adventurer is exactly the same : if he succeeds, he may secure an independency ; if he is unsuccessful, his person and services are at the disposal of another; fur, in Africa, not only the effects of the insolvent, but the insolvent himself, issold to satisfy the lawful dernands of his creditors."* Insolvency, however, is, after all, rather a misfortune than a crime ; and we rank it here as a crime, more in deference to the institutions of the ancients, and the customs of certain modern nations, than as an indication of our own sentiments—fur we are decidedly of opinion, that slavery is much too high a penalty to be attached to what, in many cases, is sheer misfortune. But, besides insolvency, the laws of Africa affix slavery as a punishment to the crimes of murder, adultery, and witchcraft. lu case of murder, the nearest relation of the murdered, after conviction, may either kill or sell into slavery, at his option. In adultery, the otleuded party may enslave or demand a ransom at pleasure; and as to witchcraft, Parke not having met with any trial for this offence, could only assure us that it was the source of slavery, though not common.t We have now surveyed the principal sources of slavery, and although we do not pretend to be minute and complete in the division which we have made, we hope we have said enough upon this branch to show that slavery is inevitable in the progress of society, from its first and most savage state, to the last and most refined. We started out with announcing the fact, startling to those who have never reflected upon the subj,ct, that slavery existed throughout the whole of the ancient, and in a very large portion of the modern world. We have farther shown by the preceding reasoning, that this was no accident, the mere result of chance, but was a necessary and inevitable consequence of the principles of human nature and the state of property. We shall now proceed to inquire briefly into the advantages which have resulted to mankind from the institution of slavery. Advantages which have resulted to the world from the iis- •	Parke's Travels in Africa, p. . f Parke's	p. t stitution of slavery.—When we turn our thoughts from this world "of imperfections" to the God of nature, we love to contemplate Him as perfect and immaculate, and amid all the divine attributes with which we delight to clothe Him, none stands more conspicuous than his benevolence. To look upon Him in this light, may be said to be almost the impulse of an instinct of our nature, and the most enlarged experience and perfect knowledge combine in fortifying and strengthening this belief. Accordingly, when we look abroad to the works of Omnipotence, when we contemplate the external, the physical world, and again, when we turn to the world of mind, we never find evil the sole object and end of creation. Happiness is always the main design ; evil is merely incidental. All the laws of matter, every principle, and even passion of man, when rightly understood, demonstrate the general benevolence of the Deity, even in this world. " It is, perhaps," says Mr. Allison, " the most striking and the most luminous fact in the history of our intellectual nature, that that principle of curiosity which is the instinctive spring of all scientific inquiry into the phenomena of matter or mind, is never satisfied until it terminates in the discovery, not only of design, but of benevolent design." Well, then, might we have concluded, from the fact that slavery was the necessary result of the laws of mind and matter, that it marked some benevolent design, and was intended by our Creator for some useful purpose. Let us inquire, then, what that useful purpose is, and we have no hesitation in affirming that slavery has been, perhaps, the principal means for impelling forward the civilization of mankind. Without its agency, society must have remained sunk into that deplorable state of barbarism and wretchedness which characterized the inhabitants of the Western World, when first discovered by Columbus. We have already spokes of tbggreitt advantage of slavery in mitigating the horrors of savage warfare ; but not only is this most desirable effect produced, but it has a farther tendency to check the frequency of war, and to destroy that migratory spirit in nations and tribes, so destructive to the peace and tranquillity of the world. Savages, living in the bunting state, must have an extensive range of country, for the supply of the wants of even a few persons. " Hence," says Dr. Robertson, " it is of the utmost importance to prevent neighboring tribes from destroying or disturbing the game in their hunting grounds, they guard this national property with a jealous attention. But as their territories are extensive, and the boundaries of them not exactly ascertained, innumerable subjects of disputes arise, which seldom terminate without bloodshed."* Uncertain boundaries, constant roaming through the forests, in search of game, and all the unchecked and furious passions of the savage, lead on to constant and exterminating wars among the tribes. What, then, let us ask, can alone prevent this constant scene of strife and massacre I Nothing but that which can bind them down to the soil, which can establish homes and fi, aides, which can change the wandering character of the savage, and make it his interest to cultivate peace instead of war. Slavery produces these effects. It necessarily leads on to the taming and rearing of numerous flocks, and to the cultivation of the soil. Hunting can never support slavery. Agriculture fiat sugfeats the notion of servitude, and, as often happens in the politico-econcmical world, the effect becomes, in turn, a powerfully operating cause. Slavery gradually fells the forest, and thereby destroys the haunts of the wild beasts ; it gives rise to agricultural production, and thereby renders mankind less dependent on the precarious and diminishing production •	Illmory of America, vol. I, p. . of the chase; it thus gradually destroys the roving and unquiet life of the savage ; it furnishes a home, and binds him down to the soil ; it converts the idler and the wanderer into the man of business and the agriculturist. If we look to the condition of Africa, and compare it with that of the American Indians, wr) shall find a complete illustration of these remarks, and Africa, as we shall soon see, would enjoy a much greater exemption from war, if it were not for the slave trade, whose peculiar operation we shall presently notice. But, secondly, the labor of the slave, when slavery is first introduced, is infinitely more productive than that of the freeman. Dr. Robertson, in his History of America, speaks of the acquisition of dominion over the inferior animals, as a step of capital importance in the progress of civilization. It may with truth be affirmed, that the taming of man and rendering him fit for labor, is more important than the taming and using the inferior animals, and nothing seems so well calculated to effect this as slavery. Savages have ever been found to be idle and unproductive, except in the chase. "The aborigines of North America resembled rather beasts of prey," says Dr. Robertson, " than animals formed for labor. They were not only averse from toil, but seemed at first entirely incapable of it.. There is nothing which so completely proves the general indolence and inactivity of the Indian, as their very moderate appetites. Their constitutional temperance exceeded that of the most fnortified hermits, and the appetites of the Spaniards (generally reckoned very temperate in Europe) appeared to the natives insatiably voracious, and they affirmed that one Spaniard devoured, in a day, more food than was enough for ten Indians.* •	Robertson's America, vol. , book . The improvidence and utter recklessness of the savage are noticed, too, by all the historians. " They follow blindly," says Robertson, " the impulse of the appetite which they feel, but are entirely regardless of distant consequences, and even of those removed in the least degree from immediate apprehension. When, on the approach of evening, a Carabee feels himself disposed to go to rest, no consideration will tempt him to sell his hammock ; but in the morning, when he is sallying out to the business or pastime of the day, he will part with it for the slightest toy that catches his fancy. At the close of winter, while the impression of what he has suffered from the rigor of the climate is fresh in the mind of the North American, he sets himself with vigor to prepare materials for erecting a comfortable hut, to protect him against the inclemency of the succeeding season ; but as soon as the weather becomes mild, he forgets what is past, abandons his work, and never thinks of it more, until the return of cold compels him, when too late, to resume it."* There is nothing but slavery which can destroy those habits of indolence and sloth, and eradicate the character of improvidence and carelessness, which mark the independent savage. He may truly be compared to the wild beast of the forest—be must be broke and tamed, before be becomes fit for labor, and for the task of rearing and providing for a family. There is nothing but slavery that can effect this ; the means may appear exceedingly harsh and cruel, and, as among wild beasts, many may die in the process of taming and subjugating, so among savages, many may not be able to stand the hardships of servitude ; but, in the end, it leads on to a milder and infinitely better condition than that of savage independence, gives rye to greater production, increases the provisions in nature's * History of America, vol. , pp. , . great storehouse, and invites into existence a more numerous population, better fed and better provided, and thus gives rise to society, and. consequently, speeds on more rapidly the cause of civilization. But upon this great, this delicate and all-important subject, we wish to risk no vain theories, no un- founded conjectures—from beginning to end, we shall speak conscientiously, and never knowingly plant in our bosom a thorn which may rankle there. Let us, then, see whether the above assertions may not be satisfactorily proved, para- doxical as they may at first appear, by fact and experience. If we turn to the Western World, where an ample field is presented for the contemplation of man, in his first and rudest state, we find that slavery existed nowhere throughout the American continent, except in Peru and Mexico, and these were decidedly the most flourishing portions of this vast con- tinent " When. compared," says Dr. Robertson, " with other parts of the New World, Mexico and Peru may be considered as polished states. Instead of small, independent, hostile tribes, struggling for subsistence amidst woods and marshes, strangers to industry and arts, unacquainted with subordination, and almost without the appearance of regular governments we find countries of great extent subjected to the dominion of one sovereign, the inhabitants collected together in cities, the wisdom and foresight of rulers employed in providing for the maintenance and security of the people, the empire of laws in some measure established, the authority of religion recognized, many of the arts essential to life brought to some degree of maturity, and the dawn of such as are ornamental beginning to appear."* A,rain : In the Islands of the South Sea, Captain Cook was astonished at the populousness of Otaheite and the Society •	Robertson'. America, vol. !I, page . Islands. Slavery seems to have been established throughout these Islands, and compensated, no doubt, in part, for many of those abomidable practices which seem to have been prevalent among the natives. Again : On turning to Africa, where we find the most abundant and complete exemplifications of every species of slavery, and its effects, and where, consequently, the philosophy of the subject may be most advantageously studied, we find most conclusive proof of our assertions. "It deserves particular notice, that the nations in this degrading condition (state of slavery) are the most numerous, the most powerful, and the most advanced in all the arts and improvements of life ; that, if we except the human sacrifices to which blind veneration prompts them, they display even a disposition more amiable, manners more dignified and polished, and moral conduct,more correct, than prevail among the citizens of the small free states, who are usually idle, turbulent, quarrelsome and licentious."* The Africans, too, display, in a remarkable degree, the love of home, and fondness for their native scenes—a mark of considerable advancement in civilization. "Few of them," says the author of the History of Africa just quoted, " are nomadic and wandering; they generally have native seats, to which they cling with strong feelings of local attachment. Even the tenants of the desert, who roam widely in quest of commerce and plunder, have their little watered valleys, or circuit of hills, in which they make their permanent abode." Can any general facts more strikingly illustrate our position than those which we have just mentioned?	• But there is other, and abundant testimony, on this subject; •	See Family Library, No. , page , Africa. t Family Library, No. , pap . the difference between the negroes imported into the West Indies still farther substantiates all we have said. The negroes from Whida, or Fida, called in the West Indies PapatIlet are the best disposed and most docile slaves. The reason seems to be, that the great majority of these people are in a state of absolute slavery in Africa ; and " Bosman," says Bryan Edwards, "speaks with rapture of the improved state of their soil, the number of villages, and the industry, riches, and obliging manners of the natives."* So that slavery seems to be an incalculable advantage to them, both in the West Indies and in their own country. The Koromantyn, or Gold Coast negro, is generally stubborn, intractable, and unfit for labor, at first. His•habits, in his native country, are very similar to those of the North American Indian. He must be broke and tamed, before he is fit for labor. When they are thus tamed, however, they become the best laborers in the West Indies. " They sometimes," says Bryan Edwards, "take to labor with great promptitude and alacrity, and have constitutions well adapted to it." And he gives, as a reason for this, that "many of them have undoubtedly been slaves in Africa." Still, this country seems yet too barbarous for a regular system of slavery. Accordingly, the Koromantyns are described as among the most ferocious of the Africans in war, never sparing the life of an enemy, except to make him a slave, and that but rarely. Their whole education and philosophy, consequently, seem directed, as is the case with all savages, to prepare and steel them against the awful vicissitudes to which they are ever liable—they have their yell of war, and their death songs too. Nothing but slavery can civilize such beings, give them habits * Edward's West Indies, vol. , pp. , . of industry, and make them cling to life for its enjoyments.* Strange as it may seem, we have little hesitation in declaring it as our opinion, that a much greater number of Indians, within the limits of the United States, would have been saved, had we rigidly persevered in enslaving them, than by our present policy. It is, perhaps, the most melancholy fact connected with the history of our young republic, that in proportion as the whites have been advancing, the Indians have been constantly and rapidly decreasing in numbers. When our ancestors first settled on this continent, the savages were around and among them, and were everywhere spread over this immense territory. Now, where are they Where are the warlike tribes that went to battle under their chieftains They have rapidly disappeared, as the pale faces have advanced. Their numbers have dwindled to insignificance. Within the limits of the original States, the primitive stock has been reduced to ,. Within the whole of the United States, east of the Mississippi, there are but , ; and on the whole of our, territory, east and west of the Mississippi, extending over derees of latitude and of longitude, there are but ,! ! Miserable remnant of the myriads of former days And yet the government of our country has exhausted every means for their civilization, and •	This increasing love of life, as an effect of slavery, is exemplified in the following anecdote, related by Edwards : " A gentleman of Jamaica, visiting a valuable Koromantyn negro, that was sick, and perceiving that he was thoughtful and dejected, endeavored, by sooth ing and encouraging language, to raise his drooping spirits. • Massa,' said the negro, in a tone of self-reproach and conscious degeneracy, 'since me come to white man's country, me lub (love) life too much!" History of the West Indies, vol. , p. . the philanthropist has not been idle in their behalf. Schools have been erected, both public and private, missionaries have been sent among them, and all in vain. The President of the United States now tells you that their removal farther West is necessary—that those who live on our borders, in spite of our efforts to civilize them, are rapidly deteriorating in character, and becoming every day more miserable and destitute. We agree with the President in this policy—tb remove them is all we can now do for them. But, after all, the expedient is temporary, and the relief is short lived. Our population will again, and at no distant day, press upon their borders, their game will be destroyed, the intoxicating beverage will be furnished to them, they will engage in wars, and their total extermination will be the inevitable consequence. The hand-writing has indeed appeared on the wall. The mysterious decree of Providence has gone forth against the red man. His destiny is fixed, and final destruction is his inevitable fate. Slavery, we assert again, seems to be the only means that we know of, under heaven, by which the ferocity of the savage can be conquered, his wandering habits eradicated, his slothfulness and improvidence—by which, in fine, his nature can be changed. The Spaniards enslaved the Indians in South-America, and they were the most cruel and relentless of masters. Still, under their system of cruel and harsh discipline, an infinitely larger proportion of the aborigines were saved than with us, and will, no doubt, in the lapse of ages, mix and harmonize with the Europeans, and be, in all respects, their equals.* •	Humboldt, in his recapitulation of the population of New Spain, gives us the following table : Indigenous, or Indians,	-	-	,, Creoles, ,.	,, Whites, or Spaniards,	- Europeans, , From their inhuman treatment of the Indians, at first, numbers died in the process of taming and subjugating; but, in the end, their system has proved more humane than ours, and demonstrates, beyond a doubt, that nothing is so fit as slavery, to change the nature of the savage.* " We observe," says Humboldt, "and the observation is consoling to humanity, that not only has the number of Indians in South America and Mexico been on the increase, for the last century, (he published his work in ,) but that the whole of the vast region which we designate by the general name of New Spain, is much better inhabited at present than it was before the arrival of the Europeans."f He gives a very remarkable instance of the effects of even unjust slavery, on the industry and agriculture of the country. Ho speaks of the Alcaldias Mayores, a sort of provincial magistrates and judges in Mexico, forcing the Indians to purchase cattle of them, and afterwards reducing them to slavery, for non-payment of the debts thus contracted. And he adds, upon the authority of Fray Antonio, Monk of St. Jerome, that " the individual happiness of these unfortunate wretches was not, certainly, increased by the sacrifice of their liberty, for a horse or a mule to work for their master's profit but yet, in this African negroes,	-	, Cal-ls of mixed blood,	-	,. [Humboldt's New Spain, N. Y. ed., vol. , p . Again : The number of Indians in Peru is estimated at ,, nearly double of the whole Indian population of the United States.—[Vol. , p. . •	We shall soon see that there is not, in the annals of history, an instance of such rapid improvement in civilization, as that undergone by the negro slaves in our country, since the time they were first brou;ht among us. t Humboldt's New Spain, vol., p. . state of things, brought on by abuses, agriculture and industry were seen to increase."* We beg our readers to bear in mind, that we are here merely discussing the effects of slavery, and nut passing our opinions upon the justice or injustice of its origin. We shall now close our remarks upon this head, by the citation of an instance furnished by our own country, of the great advantage of slavery to masters—for, among savages, the benefit seems to extend to both master and slave. There is an able article in the th number of the North American Review, on the "Removal of the Indians," from the pen of Governor Cass, whom we have no hesitation, from the little we have seen of his productions, to pronounce one of the most philosophical and elegant writers in this country. In this article, after pointing out the true condition of the Indian tribes in the neighborhood of the whites, and proving, beyond a doubt, that they are injured, instead of benefitted, by their juxtaposition, he admits that the Cherokees constitute a solitary, and but a partial exception—that some individuals among them have acquired property, and, with it, more enlarged and just notions of the value of our institutions. He says that these salutary changes are confined principally to the kW breeds, and their immediate connexions, and are not sufficiently numerous to overturn his reasoning, against the practicability of civilizing the Indians. Now, what are the anises of this dawn of civilization among the Cherokees "The causes which have led to this state of things," says Governor Cass, "are too peculiar ever to produce an extensive result. . . . They have been operating for many years, and among the most prominent of them, has been the introduction of slaves, by which means, that unconquerable aver- •	Vol. , pp. , . sion to labor, so characteristic of all savage tribes, can be ind ulged."* We hope, now, we have said enough to convince even the most sceptical, of the powerful effects of slavery, in changing the habits peculiar to the Indian or savage, by converting him into the agriculturist, and changing his slothfulness and aversion to labor into industry and economy, thereby rendering his labor more productive, his means of subsistence more abundant and regular, and his happiness more secure and constant We cannot close our remarks on the general effects of slavery on the progress of civilization, without pointing out the peculiar influence on that portion of the human race, which the civilized nations of modern times so much delight to honor and to cherish—the fair sex. . Influence of slavery on the condition of the female sex.—The bare name of this interesting half of the human family, is well calculated to awaken in the breast of the generous the feeling of tenderness and kindness. The wrongs and sufferings of meek, quiet, forbearing woman, awaken the generous sympathy of every noble heart. Man never suffers without murmuring, and never relinquishes his rights without a struggle. It is not always so with woman : her physical weakness incapacitates her for the combat; her sexual organization, and the part which she takes in bringing forth and nurturing the rising generation, render her necessarily domestic in her habits, and timid and patient in her sufferings. If man choose to exercise his power against woman, she is sure •	See North American Review, No. , article . The Spaniards, when they first conquered Mexico and Peru, were, as we have already said, the most cruel and relentless of masters. They are now the mott humane and kind, and perhaps the Portuguese come next, who were equally cruel with the Spaniards, during the first century after the.r settlement in the New World; '	, • to fall an easy prey to his oppression. Hence, we may always consider her progressing elevation in society as a mark of advancing civilization, and, more particularly, of the augmentation of disinterested and generous virtue. The lot of women, among savages, has always been found to be painful and degrading. Dr. Robertson says that, in America, their condition " is so peculiarly grievous, and their depression so complete, that servitude is a name too mild to describe their wretched state. A wife, among most tribes, is no better than a beast of burthen, destined to every office of labor and fatigue. While the men loiter out the day in sloth, or spend it in amusement, the women are condemned to excessive toil. Tasks are imposed on them without pity, and services are received without complacence or gratitude. Every circumstance reminds women of this mortifying inferiority. They must approach their lords with reverence. They must regard them as more exalted beings, and are not permitted to eat in their presence. There are districts in America where this dominion is so grievous, and so sensibly felt, that some women, in a wild emotion of maternal tenderness, have destroyed their female children in their infancy, in order to deliver them from that intolerable bondage to which they knew they were doomed."* This harrowing description of woman's servitude and sufferings, among the aborigines of America, is applicable to all savage nations. In the Islands of Andaman, in Van Die_ man's Land, in New Zealand,f and New Holland, the lot of woman is the same. The females carry, on their heads and bodies, the traces of the superiority of the males. Mr. Col- •	Robertson's America, vol. , p. . f In New Zealand, agriculture has worked a most wonderful change in the lot of woman. She is now more respected and loved. See Library of Entertaining Knowledge, vol. , New Zealanders. on lins says, of the women of New South Wales, "Their condition is so wretched, that I have often, on seeing a female child borne on its mother's shoulders, anticipated the miseries to which it was born, and thought it would be mercy to destroy it." And thus it is that the most important of all connections, the marriage tie, is perverted, to the production of the degradation and misery of the one sex, and the arrogant assumption and unfeelic cruelty of the other. But the evil stops not with the sufferings of woman—her prolificness is in a measure destroyed. Unaided by the male in the rearing of her children, and being forced to bear them on their shoulders, when the huntsmen are roaming through the forests many of their offspring must die, from the vicissitudes to which they are subjected at so tender an age. Moreover, among wandering tribes," says Dr. Robertson, "the mother cannot attempt to rear a second child until the first has attained such a degree of vigor as to be in some measure independent of her care. . . . When twins are born, one of them is commonly abandoned, because the mother is not equal to the task of rearing both. When a mother dies while she is nursing a child, all hope of preserving its life fails, and it is buried, together with her, in the same grave." s is not necessary that we should continue farther this shocking picture ; but let us proceed at once to inquire if the institution of slavery is not calculated to relieve the sufferings and wrongs of injured woman, and elevate her in the scale of existence I Slavery, we have just seen, changes the hunting to the shepherd and agricultural states,—gives rise to augmented productions, and, consequently, furnishes more abundant supplies for man. The labor of the slave thus becomes a substitute for that of the woman ; man no longer wanders •	Robertson's America, vol. , p. . through the forest, in quest of game and woman, consequently, is relieved from following on his track, under the enervating and harassing burthen of her children. She is now surrounded by her domestics, and the abundance of their labor lightens the toil and hardships of the whole family. She ceases to be a mere "beast of burthen ;" becomes the cheering and animating centre of the family circle—time is afforded for reflection and the cultivation of all those mild and fascinating virtues, which throw a charm and delight around our homes and firesides, and calm and tranquillize the harsher tempers and more restless propensities of the male : Man, too, relieved from that endless disquietude about subsistence for the morrow—relieved of the toil of wandering over the forest—more amply provided for by the productions of the soil—finds his habits changed, his temper moderated, his kindness and benevolence increased ; he loses that savage and brutal feeling which he had before indulged towards all his unfortunate dependants ; and, consequently, even the slave, in the agricultural, is happier than the free man in the hunting state. In the very first remove from the most savage state, we behold the marked effects of slavery on the condition of woman—we find her at once elevated, clothed with all her charms, mingling with and directing the society to which she belongs, no longer the slave, but the equal and the idol of man. The Greeks and Trojans, at the siege of Troy, were in this state, and some of the most interesting and beautiful passages in the Iliad relate to scenes of social intercourse and conjugal affection, where woman, unawed and in all the pride of conscious equality, bears a most conspicuous part. Thus, Helen and Andromanche are frequently represented as appearing in company with the Trojan chiefs, and mingling freely in conversation with them. Attended only by one or two maid servants, they walk through the streets of Troy, as business or fancy directs : even the prudent Penelope, persecuted as she is by her suitors, does not scruple occasionally to appear among them ; and scarcely more reserve seems to be imposed on virgins than married women. Mitford has well observed, that " Homer's elegant eulogiums and Hesiod's severe sarcasm, equally prove woman to have been in their days important members of society. The character of Penelope in the Odyssee, is the completest panegyric on the sex that ever was composed ; and no language even give a more elegant or more highly colored picture of conjugal affection, than is displayed in the conversation of Hector and Andromanche, in the th book of the Iliad."* The Teutonic races who inhabited the mountains and fastnesses of Germany, were similarly situated to the Greeks ; and even before they left their homes to move down upon the Roman Empire, they were no more distinguished by their deeds in arms, than for devotion and attention to the weaker sex. So much were they characterized by this elevation of the female sex, that Gilbert Stuart does not hesitate to trace the institution of chivalry, whose origin has never yet been satisfactorily illustrated, to the German manners.f Again : if we descend to modern times, we see much the largest portion of Africa existing in this second stage of civilization, and, consequently, we find woman in an infinitely better condition than we any where find her among the aborigines on the American continent. And thus is it a most singular and curious fact, that woman, whose sympathies are ever alive to the distress of others; whose heart is filled with benevolence and philanthropy, and whose fine feelings, un- * See Mitford's Greece, vol. , pp. ,', Bost. Ed f See Stuart's View of Society, particularly book , chap. , sec. ^nd . checked by considerations of interest or calculations of remote consequences, have ever prompted to embrace with eagerness even the wildest and most destructive schemes of emancipation, has been in a most peculiar and eminent degree indebted to slavery, for that very elevation in society which first raised her to an equality with man. We will not stop here to investigate the advantages resulting from the ameliorated condition of woman : her immense influence on the destiny of our race is acknowledged by all: upon her must ever devolve, in a peculiar degree, the duty of rearing into manhood a creature, in its infancy the frailest and feeblest which Heaven has made—of forming the plastic mind—of training the ignorance and imbecility of infancy into virtue and efficiency. There is, perhaps, no moral power, the magnitude of which swells so far beyond the grasp of calculation, as the influence of the female character on the virtues and happiness of mankind : it is so searching, so versatile, so multifarious, and so universal : it turns on us like the eye of a beautiful portrait, wherever we take our position ; it bears upon us in such an infinite variety of points, on our instincts, our passions, our vanity, our tastes, and our necessities ; above all, on the first impressions of education and the associations of infancy." The rule which woman should act in the great drama of life, is truly an important and an indispensable one ; it must and will be acted, and that too, either for our weal or woe : all must wish then, that she should be guided by virtue, intelligence, and the purest affection ; which can only be secured by elevating, honoring, and loving her, in whose career we feel so deep an interest. We have thus traced out the origin and progress of slavery, and pointed oat its effects in promoting the civilization of mankind. We should next proceed to an investigation of those causes, of a general character, which have a tendency, in the progress of society, gradually to remove and extinguish slavery ; but these we shall have such frequent opportunities of noticing in the sequel, while discussing various schemes of abolition that have been proposed, that we have determined to omit their separate consideration. We shall now proceed to inquire into the origin of slavery in the United States. It is well known to all, at all conversant with the history of our country, that negro slavery in the United States, the West India Islands, and South America, was originally de- rived from the African slave trade, by which the African negro was torn from his home, and transferred to the western hemisphere, to live out his days in bondage ; we shall briefly advert—First, to the origin and progress of this trade—Secondly, to its effects on Africa ; and lastly, to the considera- tion of the part which the United States have taken in this traffic, and the share of responsibility which must be laid at their door. . Origin and Progress of the African Slave Trade.— This trade, which seems so shocking to the feelings of man- kind, dates its origin as far back as the year : Antony Gonzales, a Portuguese mariner, while exploring the coast of Africa, in , seized some Moors near Cape Bojedor, and was subsequently forced by his king, the celebrated Prince Henry, of Portugal, to carry them back to Africa : he carried them to Rio del Oro, and received from the Moors in ex- change, ten blacks and a quantity of gold dust, with which he returned to Lisbon; and this, which occurred in , was the simple beginning of that extensive trade in human flesh, which has given so singular an aspect to the texture of our population, and which has and will continue to influence the character and destiny of the greatest portion of the inhabitants of the two Americas. "The success of Gonzales not only awakened the admiration, but stimulated the avarice, of his countrymen, who, in the course of a few succeeding years, fitted out no less than thirty seven ships, in the pursuit of the same gainful traffic. So early as the year , the Spaniards began to employ a few negroes in the mines of Hispaniola, and in the year , the Emperor, Charles V., granted a patent to certain persons, for the exclusive supply of , negroes annually, to the islands of Hispaniola, Cuba, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico." African slaves were first imported into this country in , more than a century after their introduction into the West Indies. It seems that, in the year (Y, the trade to Virginia was thrown open to all nations, and a Dutch vessel availing itself of the commercial liberty which prevailed, brought into James River twenty Africans, who were immediately purchased as slaves ; " and as that hardy race," says Robertson, " was found more capable of enduring fatigue under a sultry climate than Europeans, their number has been increased by continual importations." Slavery was thus introduced into the New World, and its fertile soil and extensive territory its sparse population and warm climate, so congenial to the African constitution, soon gave a powerful stimulus to the trade, and drew towards it the mercantile enterprise of every commercial nation of Europe. England being the most commercial of European nations, naturally engrossed a large portion of the trade ; Bryant Edwards says, that from the year to , there were imported into the British possessions alone, ,, slaves—making an average annual importation of more than ,. The annual importation into the two Americas from all * See Bryant Edward's West Indies, vol. , p. , and the sequel. f See upon dim subject d chapter of the first volume of Marshall's Life of Washington. and Robertson's Virginia. quarters, has frequently transcended , But our limits will not allow us to enter more fully into this subject ; and, therefore, we must content ourselves by calling the attention of the reader to the th section of Walsh's Appeal on the subject of negro slavery and the slave trade, in which he has brought together all the information upon this subject up to the time at which he wrote (.) We will now proceed to consider, d—The ejects of the Slave Trade on the condition of Africa—and first, will briefly advert to the supposed advantages. It is well known that almost the whole of Africa exists in a barbarous state—only one or two removes above the Indian of America. At the commencement of the slave trade, slavery, as we have already seen, was established throughout Africa, and had led on to great mitigation of the cruel practices of war ; but still, in consequence of the limited demand for slaves under their very rude system of agriculture, the prisoner of war was frequently put to death. So soon, however, as the slave trade was established, great care was taken in the preservation of the lives of prisoners, in consequence of the great demand for them occasioned by the slave traffic ; so that, although an extension has been given to the system of slavery, many lives are supposed to hare been saved by it. Again : it has been contended that the slave trade, by giving a value to the African negro which would not otherwise have been attached to him, has produced much more mildness and kindness in the treatment of slaves in Africa ; that the utmost care is now taken in the rearing of children, and, consequently, that although Africa has lost many of her inhabitants from this cause, yet a stimulus has thereby been given to population, which has in some measure made up the loss. " Africa," says Malthus, "has been at all times the principal mart of slaves. The drains of its population in this way have been great and constant, particularly since their introduction into the European colonies ; but, perhaps, as Doctor Franklin observes, it would be difficult to find the gap that has been made by a hundred years' exportation of negroes, which has blackened half America."* Lastly, it has been urged, and with great apparent justness, that the slave trade has contributed greatly to the civilization of a large portion of the African population ; that, by transportation to the western world, they have been placed in contact with the civilized white, and have been greatly benefitted by the change ; that the system of slavery throughout our continent and the islands, is much less cruel than in Africa; that there nowhere prevails in America, the horrid practice of sacrificing the slave on the death of his master, in order that he may be well attended in another world ; a practice which all travellers in Africa assert to be extremely common in many nations ; and finally, that the climate of our temperate and torrid zones, is much more suitable to the African constitution, than even their own climate ; and, consequently, that the physical condition of the race has greatly improved by the transplantation. There is certainly much truth in the above assertions ; but still we cannot agree that the advantages of Africa from the slave trade, have preponderated over the disadvantages. Although wars have been made more mild by the trade, yet they have been made much more frequent : an additional and powerful motive for strife has been furnished. Countries have been overrun, and cities pillaged, mainly with a view of procuring slaves for the slave dealer. Brougham likens the •	See Malthus on population, vol. , page , Georgetown Edi. Um, operation of the slave trade in this respect, to the effect which the different menageries in the world and the consequent demand for wild beasts, have produced on the inferior animals of Africa. They are now taken alive, instead of being killed as formerly ; but they are certainly more hunted and more harassed than if no foreign demand existed for them. The unsettled state of Africa, caused by the slave trade, is most undoubtedly unfavorable to the progress of civilization in that extensive region. In proof of the fatal effects of the slave trade on the peace, order, and civilization of Africa, Mr. Wilberforce asserted, and his assertion is upheld by the statements of all travellers who have penetrated far into the interior, that while in every region the sea coast and the banks of navigable rivers, those districts which, from their situation, had most intercourse with civilized nations, were found to be most civilized and cultivated ; the effects of the slave trade had been such in Africa, that those parts of the coast which had been the seats of the longest and closest intercourse with European nations in carrying on a flourishing slave trade, were far inferior in civilization and knowledge to many tracts of the interior country, where the face of the white man had never been seen ; and thus has the slave trade been able to reverse the ordinary effects of Christianity and Mahomedanism, and to cause the latter to be the instructor and enlightener of mankind, while the former left them under the undisturbed or rather increased influence of all their native superstitions.* Again : the condition of the negro during what is called the middle passage, is allowed by all to be wretched in the extreme. The slave traders are too often tempted to take on •	It is proper to state here, that Parke ascribes the superior condition of the interior districts of Africa, principally to a more healthy climate. board more slaves than can be conveniently carried; they are then stored away in much too narrow space, and left to all the horrors and privations incident to a voyage through tropical seas. The Edinburgh Review asserts, that about seventeen in a hundred died generally during the passage, and about thirty-three afterwards in the seasoning—making the loss of the negroes exported, rise to the frightful amount of per cent. It has been further asserted, that the treatment of the negroes after importation, has been generally so cruel, as that the population has not, by its procreative energies, kept up its numbers in any of the West India islands ; that it has been cheaper for the West Indian to work out his negroes, and trust to the slave trade for a supply, than to raise them in the islands where provisions are so dear. We believe the accounts of the ill treatment of slaves in the West Indies have been greatly exaggerated, and have no doubt that their condition has generally been better than in Africa ; but still it is true, that breeding has been discouraged generally where the slave trade was in full operation ; and children not being allowed full attention from the mother, have too frequently died from the want of care. And this is most probably a principal reason of the slow increase of the slaves in the West Indies, by procreation.* Upon the whole, then, we must come to the conclusion, that the slave trade has been disadvantageous to Africa ; has caused a violation of the principles of humanity, and given rise to much suffering and to considerable destruction of human life.t Judging by its ef- •	Another cause of the difficulty of keeping up the slave population of the West Indies, is the great disproportion between the sexes among those imported—the males being greatly more numerous than the females. t We do not by any means wish to be understood as contending that negro slavery in our hemisphere, has lessened the number of ne- facts, we must condemn it, and consequently, agree that slavery in our hemisphere was based upon injustice in the first instance. But we believe that there are many circumstances of an alleviating character, which form at least, a strong apology for the slave trade, thus : slavery exists throughout the whole of Africa ; the slave must necessarily be looked upon in the light of property, and subject to bargain, sale, and removal, as all kinds of moveable property are. The .Adscripti Gleba, or slaves attached to the soil, and not suffered to be removed, fare the worst. When they multiply too greatly for the products of the soil on which they are situated, their subsistence is scanty, and their condition is miserable. When not in proportion to the extent of the soil, then they are sure to be overworked, as there is a deficiency of labor. It is certainly best, therefore, if slavery exists, at all, that buying and selling should be allowed, and upon this principle the middle passage certainly constitutes the greatest objection to the slave trade, when those alone are imported who were slaves in Africa. But again : it is extremely difficult, in all questions of morality, to say, how far ignorance, conscientious opinions, and concomitant circumstances, may atone for acts extremely hurtful and improper in themselves ; we all agree that these produce great modifications. The bigot who burns his religious enemy at the stake, and conscientiously believes that he has done his God a service, and the North American Indian, who torments with every refinement of cruelty the prisoner who has unfortunately fallen into his hands, and believes that groom throughout the world. On the contrary, there is nothing more true, than that the number has greatly increased by it. We only allude to the destruction of life in the Middle Passage and the Seasoning• the Great Spirit applauds him, and that the blood of his fathers calls for it, surely do not commit the same amount of sin as the perfectly enlightened statesman, who should do the same things from policy, knowing them to be wrong. In like manner, the slave trade, at its origin, can lay claim to the same sort of apology, from the condition of the world when it arose, and the peculiar circumstances which generated it. Slavery was then common throughout almOst every country of Europe. Indeed, the slaves under the appellation of main mortables,* in France, were never liberated until the revolution in . The public law of Europe, too, justified the killing or enslaving of the prisoner, at the option of the captor. Under these circumstances, we are not to wonder that the slave trade, so far from exciting the horrors of mankind, as now, actually commanded the admiration of Europe. Gonzales, we have just seen, during the reign of the celebrated Prince Henry, in , brought the first negro slaves into Lisbon, and the deed excited the admiration of all : again, three years afterwards, Dinis Fernandez, a citizen of Lisbon, and an Esquire to the King Don John, captured four negroes on the coast of Africa and brought them into Lisbon ; and the Portuguese historian, Barras, "eulogizes Dinis," says Walsh, in his notices of Brazil, " that he did not stop at the time, to make forays into the country, and capture more slaves on his own account, but brought those he had caught back to his master, who was mightily pleased, not only with the discoveries he had made, but with the people he had carried with him, which had not been delivered from the hands of the Moors like the other ne- •	It is a singular fact, that the slaves belonging to the Church were the last liberated—a striking illustration of the feeble effects of religion and philanthropy, when arrayed against interest. groes, which had up to that time come into the kingdom, but had been caught on their own soil." The famous Bartholomew de Las Casas, Bishop of Chiapi, who is said to have been the first to recommend the importation of Africans into the New World, was a man of the mildest and most philanthropic temper, yet he never doubted at all the right to enslave Africans, though he was the zealous advocate and prOtector of the Indian. " While he contended, says Robertson, " for the liberty of people born in one quarter of the globe, he labored to enslave the inhabitants of another region ; and in the warmth of his zeal to save the Americans from the yoke, pronounced it to be lawful and expedient to impose one still heavier upon the Africans." We have already seen that Charles V. granted a commission to a company to supply his American possessions with , slaves per annum. Ferdinand and Isabella likewise had permitted the trade before him. John Hawkins was the first Englishman who embarked in the trade, and he seems by his daring and enterprise in the business, to have greatly pleased his sovereign, Queen Elizabeth, who so far from disgracing him, conferred on him the honors of knighthood, and made him treasurer of the navy.t Elizabeth, James I., Charles I. and II., were all in the habit of chartering companies to carry on the trade. No scruples of conscience seem ever to have disturbed the quiet of these royal personages, or of the agents whom they employed. The last chartered company was called the Royal African company, and had among the subscribers, the King, (Charles H.) the Duke of York, his brother, and many other persons of high rank and quality.: In fact, women, the most virtuous and * Robertson's America. t Bee Edward's West Indies, vol. , page . t Edward's West Indies, vol. , pp. -. humane, were often subscribers to this kind of stock, and seem never to have reflected upon the injustice and iniquity of the traffic, which has so long scandalized civilized Europe. It would indeed be a most difficult question in casuistry, to determine the amount of sin and wickedness committed by the various governments of Europe, in sanctioning a trade which the condition of Europe, Africa, and America, and all the habits and practices of the day, seemed so completely to justify. We shall now proceed, idly, to the consideration of the share of responsibility which attaches to the United States in the commission of the original sin by which slavery was first introduced into this country.—The colonies, being under the control and guidance of another country, were of course responsible for no commercial acts and regulations in which they had no share whatever. The slave trade, on the part of Great Britain, commenced during the reign of Elizabeth, who, personally, took a share in it. The colonies did not then exist. It was encouraged in the successive reigns of Charles L and II. and James II.; and William III. outdid them all : with Lord Sumers for his minister, he declared the slave trade to be highly beneficial to the nation. The colonies, all this time, took no share in it themselves, merely purchasing what the British merchants brought them, and doing therein what the British government invited them to do, by every means in their power. And now let us see who it was that first marked it with disapprobation, and sought to confine it within narrow bounds. The colonies began in . South-Carolina, a British colony, passed an act to prohibit further importation ; but Great Britain rejected this act with indignation, and declared that the slave trade was beneficial and necessary to the mother country. The governors of the colonies had positive orders to sanction no law enacted against the slave trade. In Jamaica, in the year , Alt attempt was made to abolish the trade to that island. The governor declared that his instructions would never allow him to sign the bill. It was tried again on the same island in , but Great Britain, by the Earl of Dartmouth, president of the board, answered : " We cannot allow the colonies to check or discourage in any degree a traffic so beneficial to th,e nation." The above historical account we have taken from a British triter. (Barnham's Observations on the Abolition of Negro Slavery.) Among all the colonies, none seem to be more eager and more pressing for the abolition of the slave trade than Virginia—in which State the citizens, wonderful to relate, seem now more remorseful and conscience-stricken than any where else in the whole southern country. Judge Tucker, in his Notes on Blackstone's Commentaries, has collected a list of no less than twenty-three acts imposing duties on slaves, which occur in the compilation of Virginia laws. The first bears date as far back as ; and the real design of all of them was not revenue, but the repression of the importation. In , most of the duties previously imposed were re-enacted, and the Assembly transmitted, at the same time, a petition to the throne, which, as Mr. Walsh most justly observes, speaks almost all that could be desired, for the confusion of our slanderers. The following are extracts : " We are encouraged to look up to the throne and implore your majesty's paternal assistance in averting a calamity of a most alarming nature." "The importation of slaves into the colonies from the coast of Africa, bath long been considered a trade of great inhumanity, and, under its present encouragement, we have too much reason to fear, will endanger the very existence of your Majesty's American dominions." " Deeply impressed with these sentiments, we most hum- bly beseech your majesty to remove all those restraints on your majesty's governors of this colony which inhibit their assenting to such laws as might check so very pernicious a commerce." The petition, of course, was unavailing. The first Assembly which met in Virginia, after the adoption of her constitution, prohibited the traffic ; and the "inhuman use of the royal negative," against the action of the colony upon this subject, is enumerated in the first clause of the first Virginia constitution, as a reason of the separation from the mother country. The action of the United States Government likewise upon the slave trade, seems to have been as deeply and efficient as could possibly have been expected from a government necessarily placed under great restraint and limitation. Not being able to enter into the details, we quote, with great pleasure, the following remark of Mr. Walsh, who, with great indefatigable zeal and industry, has collected all the important information on the subject of the slave trade, and furnished the world with a complete and triumphant vindica_ tion of the United States, against the taunts and illiberal insinuations of British writers. "It is seen," says Mr. Walsh, "by the foregoing abstract, that federal America interdicted the trade from her ports, thirteen years before Great Britain ; that she made it punishable as a crime seven years before ; that she had fixed four years sooner the period of non-impor- tation—which period was earlier than that determined upon by Great Britain for her colonies. We ought not to overlook the circumstance, that these measures were taken by a Legis- lature composed in considerable part of the representatives of Slaveholding States ; slaveholders themselves, in whom, of course, according to the Edinburgh Review, 'conscience bad suspended its functions,' and 'justice, gentleness and pity were extinguished.' In truth, the representatives from our Southern States have been foremost in testifying their abhorrence of the trajic."* Are we not then fully justified, from a historical review of the part which the colonists took, before and after the independence, in relation to the slave trade, in asserting that slavery was forced upon them, and the slave trade continued contrary to their wishes ? If ever a nation stood justified before heaven, in regard to an evil, which had become interwoven with her social system, is not that country ours ? Are not our hands unpolluted with the original sin, and did we not wish them clean of the contagion the moment our independent existence was established Y Where is the stain that rests upon our escutcheon There is none ! United America has done her duty, and Virginia has the honor of taking the lead of the abolition of the slave trade, whose example has been so tardily and reluctantly followed by the civilized nations of Europe. Virginia, therefore, especially, has nothing to reproach herself with—" the still small voice of conscience" can never disturb her quiet. She truly stands upon this subject, like the Chevalier Bayard— sans peur et sans reproche." We have now finished the first principal division of our subject—in which we have treated, we hope satisfactorily, of the origin of slavery in ancient and modern times, and have closed with a consideration of the slave trade, by which slavery has been introduced into the United States. We hope that this preliminary discussion will not be considered inappropriate to our main subject. We have considered it indispensably necessary to point out the true sources of slavery, and the principles upon which it rests, in order that we might appreciate fully the value of those arguments based upon the principles that " all men are born equal"—that " slavery in the abstract is wrong"—that " the slave has a natural right to " See Walsh'e Appeal, d edition, page . regain his liberty," &c. dre..—all of which doctrines were most pompously and ostentatiously put forth by some of the abolitionists in the Virginia Legislature. No set of legislators ever have, or ever can, legislate upon purely abstract principles, entirely independent of circumstances, without the ruin of the body politic, which should have the misfortune to be under the guidance of such quackery. Well and philosophically has Burke remarked, that circumstances give in reality to every political principle its distinguishing color and discriminating effect. The circumstances are what render every political scheme beneficial or noxious to mankind, and we cannot stand forward and give praise or blame to anything which relates to human actions and human concerns, on a simple view of the object as it stands, stript of every relation, in all the nakedness and solitude of metaphysical abstraction. The historical view which we have given of the origin and progress of slavery, shows most conclusively that something else is requisite to convert slavery into freedom, than the mere enunciation of abstract truths, divested of all adventitious circumstances and relations. We shall now proceed to the second great division of our subject, and inquire seriously and fairly, whether there be any means by which we may get rid of slavery. II. Plans for the Abolition of Negro Slavery.—Under this head we will examine first, those schemes which propose abolition and deportations and secondly, those which contemplate emancipation without deportation. st. Emancipation and Deportation.—In the late Virginia Legislature, where the subject of slavery underwent the most thorough discussion, all seemed to be perfectly agreed in the necessity of removal in case of emancipation. Several members from the lower counties, which are deeply interested in this question, seemed to be sanguine in their anticipations of the final success of some project of emancipation and deportation to Africa, the original home of the negro. " Let us translate them," said one of the most respected and able members of the Legislature, (Gen. Broadnax,) " to those realms from which, in evil times, under inauspicious influences, their fathers were unfortunately abducted. Mr. Speaker, the idea of restoring these people to the region in which nature had planted them, and to whose climate she had fitted their constitutions—the idea of benefitting, not only our condition and their condition, by the removal, but making them the means of carrying back to a great continent, lost in the profoundest depths of savage barbarity, unconscious of the existence even of the God who created them, not only the arts and comforts, and multiplied advantages of civilized life, but what is of more value than all, a knowledge of true religion—intelligence of a Redeemer—is one of the grandest and noblest, one of the most expansive and glorious ideas which ever entered into the imagination of man. The conception, whether to the philosopher, the statesman, the philanthropist, or the christian, of rearing up a colony which is to be the nucleus around which future emigration will concentre, and open all Africa to civilization, and commerce, and science, and arts, and religion—when Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands, indeed, is one which warms the heart with delight." (Speed of Gen. Broadnax, of Dinwiddie, pp. and .) We fear that this splendid vision, the creation of a brilliant imagination, influenced by the pure feelings of a philanthropic and generous heart, is destined to vanish at the severe touch of analysis. Fortimately for reason and common sense, all these projects of deportation may be subjected to the most rigid and accurate calculations, which are amply sufficient to dispel all doubt, even in the minds of the most sanguine, as to their practicability. We take it for granted, that the right of the owner to his slave is to be respected, and, consequently, that he is not required to emancipate him, unless his full value is paid by the State. Let us, then, keeping this in view, proceed to the very simple calculation of the expense of emancipation and deportation in Virginia. The slaves, by the last census (,) amounted within a small fraction to , ; the average valve of each one of these is, $ ;* consequently, the whole aggregate value of the slave population of Virginia, in , was $,, ; and allowing for the increase since, we cannot err far in putting the present value at $, ,. The assessed value of all the houses and lands in the State, amounts to $,,, and these constitute the material items in the wealth of the State, the whole personal property besides bearing but a very small proportion to the value of slaves, lands, and houses. Now, do not these very simple statistics speak volumes upon this subject ? It is gravely recommended to the State of Virginia to give up a species of property which constitutes nearly one-third of the wealth of the whole State, and almost one-half of that of Lower Virginia, and with the remaining two-thirds to encounter the additional enormous expense of transportation and colonization on the coast of Africa. But the loss of $,, of property is scarcely the half of what Virginia would lose, if the immutable laws of nature could suffer (as fortunately they cannot) this tremendous scheme of colonization to be carried into full effect. Is it not population which makes our lands and houses valuable I Why are lots in Paris and London worth more than the silver dollars which it might take to cover them ? Why are lands of equal fertility in England and France, worth more than those of our Nothern States, and those again worth more than Southern soils, and those in turn worth more than the soils of the distant West I It is the presence or absence of population which alone can explain the fact. It is, in truth, the slave labor in Virginia which gives value to her soil and her habitations ; take away this, and you pull down the Adam that upholds the whole system ; eject from the State the whole slave population, and we risk nothing in the prediction, that on the day in which it shall be accomplished, the worn soil. of Virginia would not bear the paltry price of the government lands in the West, and the Old Dominion will be a " waste howling wilderness ;"—" the grass shall be seen growing in the streets, and the foxes peeping from their holes." But the favorers of this scheme say they do not contend for the sudden emancipation and deportation of the whole black population ; they would send of only the increase, and thereby keep down the population to its present amount, while the whites, increasing at their usual rate, would finally become relatively so numerous as to render the presence of the blacks among us for ever afterwards entirely harmless. This scheme, which at first, to the unreflecting, seems plausible, and much less wild than the project of sending off the whole, is nevertheless impracticable and visionary, as we think a few remarks will prove. It is computed that the annual increase of the slaves and free colored population of Virginia is about six thousand. Let us first, then, make a calculation of the expense of purchase and transportation. At $ each, the six thousand will amount in value to #,- ,. At $ each, for transportation, which we shall soon see is too little, we have the whole expense of purchase and transportation $,,, an expense to be annually incurred by Virginia to keep down her black population to its present amount. And let us ask, is there any one who can seriously argue that Virginia can incur such an annual expense as this for the next twenty-five or fifty years, until the whites have multipled so greatly upon the blacks, as, in the opinion of the alarmists, for ever to quiet the fears of the community ? Vain and delusive hope, if any were ever wild enough to entertain it P Poor old Virginia the leader of the poverty stricken team, which have been for years so heavily dragging along under the intolerable burthen of the Federal Government, must inevitably be crushed, whenever this new weight is imposed on her, in comparison with which federal exactions are light and mild. We should as soon expect. the Chamois, the hardy rover over Alpine regions, by his unassisted strength to hurl down the snowy mantle which for ages has clothed the lofty summit of Mount Blanc, as that Virginia will be ever able, by her own resources, to purchase and colonize on the coast of Africa six thousand slaves for any number of years in succession. But this does not develope, to its full extent, the monstrous absurdity of this scheme. There is a view of it yet to be taken, which seems not to have struck very forcibly any of the speakers in the Virginia Legislature, but which appears to us, of itself perfectly conclusive against this whole project. We have made some efforts to obtain something like an accurate account of the number of negroes every year carried out of Virginia to the South and Southwest. We have not been enabled to succeed completely ; but from all the information we can obtain, we have no hesitation in saying, that upwards of , are yearly exported to other States. Virginia is, in fact, a **pro raising State for other States ; she produces enough for her own supply, and six thousand for sale. Now, suppose the government of Virginia enters the slave market resolved to purchase six thousand for emancipation and deportation, is it not evident that it must overbid the Southern seeker, and thus take the very slaves who would have gone to the South I The very first operation, then, of this scheme, provided slaves be treated as property, is to arrest the current which has been hitherto flowing to the South, and to accumulate the evil in the State. As sure as the moon in her transit over the meridian arrests the current which is gliding to the ocean, so sure will the action of the Virginia government, an attempt to emancipate and send off , slaves, stop those who are annually going out of the State ; and when , are sent off in one year, (which we never expect to see,) it will be found, on investigation, that they are those who would have been sent out of the State by the operation of our slave trade, and to the utter astonishment and confusion of our abolitionists, the black population will be found advancing with its usual rapidity—the only operation of the scheme being to substitute our government, alias, ourselves, as purchasers, instead of the planters of the South. This is a view which every legislator in the State should take. He should beware, lest in his zeal for action, this efflux, which is now so salutary to the State, and such an abundant source of wealth, be suddenly dried up, and all the evils of slavery be increased instead of diminished. If government really could enter with capital and zeal enough into the boundless project, we might even in a few years see the laws of nature reversed, and the tide of slavery flowing from the South in Virginia, to satisfy the philanthropic demand for colonization. The only means which the government could use to prevent the above described effect, would be either arbitrarily to fix the price of slaves below their market value, which would be a clear violation of the right of property, (which we shall presently notice,) or to excite a feeling of insecurity and apprehension as to this kind of property, and thus dispose the owner to part with it at less than its true value ; but surely no statesman would openly avow such an object, although it must be confessed that some of the speakers, even, who contended that slaves 'should ever be treated as property, avowed sentiments which were calculated to produce such a result. It is said, however, that the southern market will at all events be closed against us, and consequently, that the preceding argument falls to the ground. To this we answer, that as long as the demand to the south exists, the supply will be furnished in some way or other, if our government do not unwisely tamper with the subject. Bryant Edwards has said, that " an attempt to prevent the introduction of slaves into the West Indies would be like chaining the winds, or giving laws to the ocean." We may with truth affirm, that an attempt to prevent a circulation of this kind of property through the slave-holding States of our confederacy, would be equally if not more impracticable. But there is a most striking illustration of this now exhibiting before our eyes—the Southampton massacre produced great excitement and apprehension throughout the slave-holding States, and two of them, hitherto the largest purchasers of Virginia slaves, have interdicted their introduction under severe penalties. Many in our State looked forward to an immediate fall in the price of slaves from this cause ; and what has been the result ? Why, wonderful to relate, Virginia slaves are now higher than they have been for many years past ; and this rise in price has no doubt been occasioned by the number of southern purchasers who have visited our State, under the belief that Virginians had been frightened into a determination to get clear of their slaves at all events ; " and from an artificial demand in the slave purchasing States, caused by an apprehension on the part of the farmers of those States, that the regular supply of slaves would speedily be discontinued by the operation of their non-importation regulations ;"* and we are, consequently, at •	From Louisiana, many of the farmers themselves have come into this moment exporting slaves more rapidly, through the operation of the internal slave trade, than for many years past. Let us now examine a moment into the object proposed to be accomplished by this scheme. It is contended, that free labor is infinitely superior to slave labor in every point of view, and therefore it is highly desirable to exchange the latter for the former, and that this will be gradually accomplished by emancipation and deportation ; because the vacuum occasioned by the exportation of the slaves will be filled up by the influx of freemen from the north and other portions of the Union—and thus, for every slave we lose, it is contended that we shall receive in exchange a free laborer, much more productive and moral. If we are not greatly mistaken, this, on analysis, will be found to be a complete specimen of that arithmetical school boy reasoning, which has ever proved so deceptive in politics, and so ruinous in its practical consequences ; and first, let us see whether anything will be gained in point of productiveness, by this exchange of slave labor for free, even upon the avowed principles of the abolitionists themselves. The great objections to slave labor seems to be—First, that it is unproductive, or at least, not as productive as free labor ; and secondly, that it is calculated terepel free labor from the sphere in which it is exercised. This latter effect has been briefly and more ingeniously urged by a writer in the Richmond Enquirer of the rd of March, , over the signature of "York," than by any one, who is known our State, for the purpose of purchasing their own slaves, and thereby ending the laws. There are, in fact, so many plans which will effectually defeat all these preventive regulations, that we may consider their rigid enforcement utterly impracticable ; and moreover, as the excitement produced by the late insurrection in Virginia, dies away, so will these laws be forgotten, and remain as dead letters upon the statute books. to us, and we shall consequently introduce an extract from his essay. "Society naturally resolves itself," says this writer, "into three classes. The first comprehends professional men, capitalists and large landed proprietors ; the second embraces artisans and small proprietors ; and the third is composed of common laborers. Now, we are a society placed in the anomalous predicament of being totally without a laboring class ; for all our labor is performed by slaves, who constitute no part of that society, and who quoad that society, may be regarded as brutes or machines. This circumstance operates directly as a check upon the increase of white population. For, as some intelligence or property is required to enable a man to belong to either of the two first classes above enumerated, (and which I have remarked are the only classes which we have,) and so no one with ordinary self-respect can submit to sink below them, and become outcasts, the immediate tendency of the supernumerary members is to emigration." We will not, for the present, dispute the premises of the very intelligent and graceful writer, from whom we have copied the above extract ; we have endeavored throughout the review, to show that our adversaries are not justified in their conclusions, even if we admit the truth of their premises. Now, what is the conclusion arrived at by our adversaries, from the premises just mentioned ? That we must deport our slaves as fast as possible, and leave the vacuum to be filled by free labor. In the first place, then, we say upon their own principles even, they cannot expect free labor to take the place of slave, for every one acknowledges it utterly impossible to send away, at once, all our slaves—there is scarcely, we presume, a single abolitionist in Virginia, who has ever supposed that we can send away more than the annual increase. Now, then, we ask, how can any one reasonably ex- pect that the taking away of two or three negroes from a body of one hundred, (and this is a much greater proportion than the abolitionists hope to colonize,) can destroy that prejudice against laboring with the blacks, which is represented, as preventing the whites from laboring, and as sending them in multitudes to the West. If we are too proud to work in a field with fifty negro men this year, we shall surely be no more disposed to do it next year, because one negro, the increase of fifty, has been sent to Liberia ; and consequently the above reasoning, if it prove any thing, proves that we must prevent our laboring classes (the blacks) from increasing, because whites will not work with them—although the whites will be just as averse to working with them after you have checked their increase as before. But let us suppose, that by some kind of logical legerdemain, it can be proven that free labor will supply the place. of slave labor, which is deported to Africa—even then, we think, they will fail upon their other great principle, that free labor is better than slave, the truth of which principle, for the present, we are willing to allow—and their whole argument fails, for this plain and palpable reason, that free labor, by association with slave labor, must inevitably be brought down to its level, and even below it,—for the vices of the slave you may correct, by means of your authority over him, but those of the associate free laborer you cannot. Every farmer in Virginia, can testify to the truth of this assertion. He knows full well, that if he employs a white laborer to work with a black one, even at job work, where of course the inducement of labor is greatest—he will do no more than the negro, and perhaps, in a majority of cases, he will not do as much. What then might we expect of him, if he should enter the field with fifty fold his number of blacks, to work along with them regularly through the four seasons of the year ? We hazard little in saying, he would be a more unproductive laborer than the black, for he would soon have all his idle propensities, without being subjected to the same salutary restraint. It is a well known general fact, to all close observers of mankind, that if two different grades of labor as to productiveness be associated together in the same occupation, the higher has a tendency to descend to the level of the lower. Schmalz, in his Political Economy, says, that the indolence and carelessness of the serfs in the north of Europe, corrupt the free laborers who come in contact with them. Jones, in his volume on Rents, says, " a new road is at this time () making, which is to connect Hamburg and the Elb with Berlin ; it passes over the sterile sands, of which so much of the north of Germany consists, and the materials for it are supplied by those isolated blocks of granite, of which the presence on the surface of those sands forms a notorious geological puzzle. These blocks, transported to the line of road, are broken to the proper size by workmen, some of whom are Prussian free laborers, others Leibeigeners of the Mecklenburg territory, through a part of which the road passes. They are paid a stipulated sum for breaking a certain quantity, and all are paid alike. Yet the Leibeigeners could not at first be prevailed upon to break more than one-third of the quantity which formed the ordinary task of the Prussians. The mem were mixed in the hope that the example and the gains of the more industrious would animate the sluggish. Now, mark the result. A contrary effect followed ; the Leibeigeners did not improve, but the exertions of other laborers sensibly slackened, and at the time my informant (the English Engineer who superintended the work) was speaking to me, the men were again at work in separate gangs, carefully kept asun der."* And thus do we find, by an investigation of this subject, that if we should introduce, by any means, free labor in the stead of slave labor deported to Africa, that it will be certain to deteriorate by association with slave labor, until it sinks down to and even below its level. So far, we have admitted the possibility of exchanging slave for free labor, and have endeavored to prove, upon the principles of the abolitionists, that nothing would be gained by it. We will endeavor to prove, and we think we can do it incontestibly, that the scheme of the abolition and deportation will not and cannot possibly effect this exchange of slave labor for free, even if it were desirable. And in order that we may examine the project fully in this point of view, we will endeavor—first, to trace out its operation on the slave population, and then on the white. Since the publication of the celebrated work of Dr. Malthus, on the " principle of population," the knowledge of the causes which effect its condition and increase, is much more widely diffused. It is now well known to every student of political economy, that in the wide range of legislation, there is nothing more dangerous than too much tampering with the elastic and powerful spring of population. The energies of government are for the most part feeble or impotent when arrayed against its action. It is this procreative power of human species either exerted or dormant, which so frequently brushes away in reality the visionary fabrics of the philanthropists, and mars the cherished plots and schemes of statesmen. Euler has endeavored to prove, by some calculations, that the human species, under the most favorable circumstances, is capable of doubling itself once in twelve years. * See Jones's Political Economy, vol. , pp. , —London Edition. In our Western country, the progress of population has, in many extensive districts, been so rapid as to show, in our opinion most conclusively, that it is capable of doubling itself once in fifteen years without the aid of emigration. The whole of our population, since the independence of the United States, has shown itself fully capable of duplication in periods of twenty-five years, without the accession from abroad.* In some portions of our country the population is stationary, in others but very slowly advancing. We will assume then for the two extremes in our country, the stationary condition on the one side, and such increase on the other as to give rise to a duplication every fifteen years. Now as throughout the whole range comprehended between these extremes, population is capable of exerting various degrees of energy, it is very evident that the statesman who wishes to increase or diminish population, must look cautiously to the effect of his measures on its spring, and see how this will be acted on. If, for example, his object be to lessen the number of slowly increasing population, he must be convinced that his plan does not stimulate the procreative energies of society to produce more than he is capable of taking away ; or if his object be to increase the numbers, take heed lest this project deaden and paralyze the source of increase so much as to more than counterbalance any effort of his. Now looking at the texture of the Virginia population, the desideratum is to diminish the blacks and increase the whites. Let us see how the scheme of emancipation and deportation will act. We have already shown that the first operation of the plan, if slave property were rigidly respected and never taken without full compensation, would be to put a stop to the efflux from the State through other channels ; but this would not be the only effect. The longest period of duplication has been about twenty-three Government entering into the market with individuals, would elevate the price of slaves beyond their natural value, and consequently, the raising of them would become an object of primary importance throughout the whole State. We can readily imagine that the price of slaves might become so great that each master would do all in his power to encourage marriage among them—would allow the females almost entire exception from labor, that they might the better breed and nurse—and would so completely concentrate his efforts upon this object, as to neglect other schemes and less productive sources of wealth. Under these circumstances, the prolific African might, no doubt, be stimulated to press bard upon one of the limits above stated, doubling in numbers in fifteen years ; and such is the tendency which our abolition schemes, if seriously engaged in, will most undoubtedly produce ; they will be certain to stimulate the procreative powers of that very race which they are aiming to diminish; they will enlarge and invigorate the very monster which they are endeavoring to stifle, and realize the beautiful but melancholy fable of Sisyphus, by an eternal renovation of hope and disappointment. If it were possible for Virginia to purchase and send off annually for the next twenty-five or fifty years, , slaves, we should have very little hesitation in affirming, that the number of slaves in Virginia would not be at all lessened by the operation, and at the conclusion of the period such habits would be generated among our blacks, that for a long time after the cessation of the drain, population might advance so rapidly as to produce among us all the calamities and miseries of an over-crowded people. We are not now detailing in mere conjecture ; there is ample proof of the correctness of these anticipations in the years seven months, so that the addition of one year and five months more than compensate for the emigration. history of own hemisphere. The West India Islands, as we have before seen, are supplied with slaves more cheaply by the African slave trader than they can raise them, and consequently the black population in the islands nowhere keeps up its numbers by natural increase. It appears by a statement of Mr. F. Buxton, recently published, that the total number of slaves in the British West Indies, in , was ,. After the lapse of eleven years, in , the numbers were reduced to ,, making a loss on the capital of , in the short space of eleven years, of ,.* In the Mauritius, in the same space of time, the loss on the capital of , amounting to but ,, was ,. Even in the Island of Cuba, where the negro slave is treated as humanely as any where on the globe, from to , the blacks lost ,, upon the stock of . "Prior to the annexation of Louisiana to the United States," says Mr. Clay in his Colonization Speech of , " the slaves from Africa were abundant. The price of adults was generally about $, a price less than the cost of raising an infant. Then it was believed that the climate of that province was unfavorable to the rearing of negro children, and comparatively few were raised. After the United States abolished the slave trade, the price (If adults rase very considerably—greater attention was, consequently, bestowed on their children, and now nowhere is the African female more prolific than she is in Louisiana, and the climate of no one of the Southern States is supposed to be more fav- •orable to the rearing of her offspring." For a similar reason
