The nature of light considered. Theories :— I. That it is composed of particles emitted from a luminous centre ; 2. That it is created by waves or undulations by action of the luminous body upon an elastic medium ; 3. (Lorenz Oken's), that it is a polar tension of ether, evoked by the sun, and that heat is the motion of this ether. [Consult the article " Light," in any Zucyclopedia or any elementary work on Optics, or Natural Philosophy, to refresh the memory.] Artificial light and its production. The old methods. Take up the tinder-box, or the friction of the savage, where fire and light are produced by rubbing two sticks. The " burning-glass ", Archimedes's mirrors, if you choose. Then con- trast the new modes, the friction match, etc. Consider the materials used in the production of light in the old days—the pine torch, the tallow and wax candles and the oil lamp. Trace then the rise of kerosene and gas, and the electric light. That is physical and actual light. - It is merely introductory to the consideration of the mental and metaphorical light, in the past and to-day. The old lights in literature. Of the elder essayists there were Addison, Steele and others. Then followed Johnson and Goldsmith, and later Sydney Smith and Washington Irving. These were the old lights. Contrast these with Curtis, Thoreau, " Mark Twain " and others of the new. In the same way take up the older novelists, Fielding, Smollet and Richardson, with afterwards Scott and Cooper. Then, chief of the new lights are Thackeray and Dickens, with Trollope, Farjeon, Black and Howells, bringing up the rear. In poetry, the old lights. Shakespeare, Milton, Pope, Byron, Coleridge and Shelley, with Tennyson, Browning, Swinburne, Longfellow and Lowell, as the new. The old light in politics. Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison, Ames, Quincy, Macon and others, contrasted with those of the present day. The old methods of controversial politics, and the intrusting of office mainly to honest and competent men. There are doubts whether we have degenerated in that respect. If we have, it is not because we are any worse than our fathers inherently. Our defects are greater in amount since we have a larger population, and our activity, and the zeal of journalists make them more public. If greater in specific instances it is because of the increase of wealth, and the concentration of capital in fewer hands, who use money in politics as a means of increasing wealth. The old light in morals. There was more form and ceremony, but whether there was more morality then, abstractly considered, is doubtful. The old letters that occasionally get into print through antiquarian research, show that men were actuated then as now, at times, by base motives, and that the old light, in this respect, was no brighter than the new. There are larger prizes now to provoke the greed of gain, hence wrong is bolder, and conscience more easily overpowered. [Here instances may be cited prom the history of the past and the present ] The old rascality was smaller in gross amount, but proportionately it was the same. After all the new light is preferable to the old. In literature, politics and morals, it is broader and more lasting, as in its physical form, its methods and materials have improved. If the poor man has less to hope for in a struggle for material growth, if there be greater obstacles in his road to competence, his lot is a better one than in the old times. What were then comforts are now necessities ; what were once luxuries are now comforts.	. On this skeleton we build two completed essays, each capable of much further expansion, and with different mode of handling ; and a number of diverse ones can be made, when once the train of thought is started. 1, LIGHT, NEW AND OLD, FIRST ESSAY. It is difficult to determine whether there has been a greater change in light, as a physical and actual thing, or in light, as a mental and metaphorical thing, during the century. Both have apparently changed. In light, physically, the improvement has been marked ; in light, mentally, improvement is a disputed point. If it exist, it is accompanied with corresponding dis- advantages. The nature of light, whether natural or artificial, is not entirely settled. There are several theories. The old one, that light is composed of infinitesimal particles, directly emitted from the centre of illuminating. Afterwards, it was more generally held that light is the result of undulations of an elastic medium, through the direct action of the illuminating body. A later theory, that of Lorenz Oken, is coming into favor. This holds that light is a polar tension of ether, evoked by the luminous body, and that heat is the production of the motion of this ether. The apparent source of natural light is the sun, whether its rays be transmitted, as the old theory would have it, direct as in day-light, or by reflec- tion, as in moonlight. But neither of these being always available,artificial light is ofttimes required. The savage, in the rudest condition of mankind, needs light, or the fire which accompanies it, and he soon learns to produce both by the friction of two sticks of rotten wood. The use of fragments of pine, or other resinous wood, for torches, is a natural contrivance. Civilization brought flint and steel, with the accompanying tinder-box. These were used for ages to produce light on an emergency, or fire for domestic purposes, though V 1Y 1J00111 0.	10 the latter alone could be had, when the sun shone, through the agency of the double convex lens, known as the burning-glass. That, and the concentration of sun's rays by means of mirrors, were known to the ancients. Suddenly,. during the first quarter of the present century, an inventive genius,well enough versed in chemistry to know that chlorate of potasga could be made to ignite any inflammable substance by bringing it in contact with a mineral acid, produced the contrivance known as " Etnas." The properties of phosphorus were called on for a similat method, and the " Lucifers ", where a flat match was lit by being drawn lightly through folded sand paper, came into vogue. They were the half way house on the road to the present friction matches, that have been cheapened until they are within the reach of the poorest, and are consumed by the million daily. Certainly the materials used in public or private for the continuous evolution of light, have also improved. In the old days they thought they had reached perfection when they replaced the pine torch with candles of wax or tallow, and the lamp of oil. With these they illuminated their houses and made a faint attempt to light the avenues. But up came gas, and, except in out of the way places, replaced all these. Where gas cannot be made, the refined petroleum brought from the bowels of the earth, takes the place of LU	IJ -EL .EI L' l F LT	0IJLil Ia. oil, furnishing a brighter light at less cost, and just as men begin to speculate whether the crude materials for gas and kerosene will not ere long become exhausted, the electric light appears. As with the physical, so with mental illumination. We have new lights in literature and politics, and we have new lights in morals. The brilliancy of the old lights of literature is not impairtd by that of the new. Every age seems to have its own sun and stars in the sky of. letters. Around Addison circled other essayists of note ; Goldsmith was the centre of another system ; so was Washington Irving ; so was Swift ; so was Sydney Smith. In poetry Shakespeare was a sun around which revolved rare Ben Jonson, Marlowe and the rest. Byron, Scott, Coleridge, Shelley, Keats and Southey took the same position in their time. The writers around us do not seem to have attained the same rank. But the obscure of to-day are the noted of to-morrow ; the dwarfs of the present are the giants of the future. The sum total of the literary work of the present is greater than in the past •, men that in a previous period would have attracted attention are lost among the number of really clever men. Trollope, Collins, Farjeon, Howells, and a dozen others among novelists ; Tennyson, Browning, Longfellow, Whittier, Swinburne, and many more among poets ; Curtis, Thoreau, James and others among essayists, embody in the The new light in politics seems but dim in comparison with the old. Is it really so ? It is to be doubted whether Richelieu was more clever in his time than Bismarck now ; Mazarin more astute than Cavour, or the older Pitt abler than Gladstone. Looking to our Country, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison, Quincy, Ames, Macon, Calhoun and Webster have seemed to be without successors. It must be borne in mind that part of these men flourished at a time when the policy of the government was being shaped, when there were problems of statesmanship to be solved, or circumstances arising that developed latent intellectual power. To-day, the questions to be settled are different. The general policy of the State is determined, and though one party may drift toward centralization, and the other toward extreme municipal self-control, yet neither can get far from the just balance of power settled by the Constitution, and by its judicial interpretation. The points at issue in political contests now are meaner than before. They involve money rather than abstract principle, though at bottom there is a hidden contest of systems. The new light in politics burns low and flickers at times, but the same source of brilliancy is there, and if need come, it would be turned up, and blaze. Great occasions often breed great men, and always bring such to the front. The old light in morals seems at first view to be brighter than the new. But when we read the old time correspondence which is dragged from obscurity from time to time, we learn that the men of the early days of the republic were not always prompted by the higher motives, and that much of the brilliancy of their actions was dimmed by envy, meanness, treachery, slander, and avarice. In morals, poor human nature, then as now, did not always trim its lamp cleanly, nor furnish a pure oil for burning. During the most perilous parts of the Revolutionary struggle, we find that the Congress committed injustice as a body some- times, and that not a few of its members engaged in intrigues, and manifested the most contemptible jealousy of each other. If there be more dis- regard for right and honor now, it is only propor- tionate to the greater number of people, and the larger field. There are more scamps, because there are more men. If we have to-day combina- tions of knaves to plunder their fellow-men by means of syndicates and trusts, it is because the wealth of the country has grown so much, that it has necessarily concentrated in fewer hands, and that this aggregation of wealth in the few stimu- lates their avarice. But the fact that the rich are growing richer, and the poor, poorer, is counter- balanced by the reserved power that the poorer masses retain to change or at least modify this through the machinery in their hands. The general tone of society, and the comforts of the poor, are increased ; and no one who studies our condition aright can fail to perceive that the aggregated virtue and morality is as great now as at any period of our history. Both the physical and mental new lights are preferable to the old ; and, however the pessimist may talk of modern degeneracy, he would not go back to the old light, and to the old condition of affairs, if he could. LIGHT; NEW AND OLD. SECOND ESSAY. There are, as every one knows, or is presumed to know, two theories long prevailing in regard to the origin and nature of light. One is that its particles are projected from a luminous body, as the sun for instance, with a swiftness of 198,000 miles to the second. The other holds that light is produced by the action of the luminous body itself upon a subtle and elastic medium pervading all space. These have somewhat given way to a third theory by Oken. " Light," he says, " is but a polar tension of ether evoked by a central body in antagonism with the planets, and heat is the motion of this ether." This doctrine is doubt- less very clear, so far as the great central body is concerned, and is becoming accepted ; but that is for natural light. When it comes to the artificial, and is produced by a friction match, it results from the antagonism of the coated end of the little stick with the sandpaper, boot-soles, trouser-leg or door-jamb. If the match happens to break, certainly if two break in succession, profanity as well as light is apt to be evolved. Whatever be its nature, there is no doubt that light travels much faster than sound, and very much faster than a solid body projected through space. In former days, when the old-fashioned flint lock fowling-piece was in use, the sportsman was rarely able to hit the wild-duck known as the didapper. The fowl would dive at the flash of the powder, and the shot would strike the water at the spot he had been. But though light itself always moved rapidly, the method of making it artificially made slow progress for ages. It was not until this century, and well into it, when the old tinder-box, with the flint and steel to make the spark, the charred rag to catch it, and the sulphur match to bring it to a flame, gave way to easier methods. The older folk well remember the rising to strike a light at any hour of the night, the abraded fingers where the old rasp or bit of steel struck the skin instead of the flint, and all the other discomforts of the situation. Then came the " Etnas." You dipped a match in a bottle, and a flame was kindled, as a bottle or two very frequently kindled a flame_ between two people, before and since. This contrivance was followed by the Lucifer, where a flat piece of thin wood, the end coated with inflammable matter, was drawn through sanded paper. At last came the present friction match, made by millions, and for the million. This has been supposed to be the no-farther-beyond of all invention ; but before long man will only have to turn a button, and light will break out of darkness. Not only has there been improvement in the mode of evoking light, but also in the materials by which its evolution is made continuous. The old lamp, with its foul and ill-smelling whale oil, and the tallow dip, with its attendant snuffers, has given way to kerosene, which adds to its power of illumination, great capacity for firing cities, and reducing the number of servant girls. The troublesome wax taper, with an indefinite capacity for guttering and dropping cataracts of cereous matter on coats and carpets, has given way to gas, the daily consumption of which is regulated, not by the housekeeper, but by the conscientious gentleman who copies the record from the meter. And now, after ineffectual invasions by hydro-oxygen and burning magnesium, in • comes electricity, and beside its other offices, proposes to light, and actually does light house and street so cheaply and brilliantly as to drive gas away, and effectually embarrass the plans of the Standard Oil Company. But the new light and the old of which we treat - have nothing to do after all with those we have cited. The lights we refer to are not physical and material, but mental and abstract, they are the new lights which are driving out the old in literature, politics and morals ; and, if they be not of an electrical nature in other respects, they are at .least calculated to shock the sensibilities of those of the old school who have not grown up in the progressive wickedness of the new. Thus in literature, the new essayists, poets and novelists differ in style, method and character from their predecessors. The old essayists, Addison, Steele and Goldsmith, had something to say, and could say it charmingly. Later on, Sydney Smith, Macaulay and Washington Irving could do the same. But they never attempted to make bricks without straw. The new literary light bearers not only do without straw, but frequently without clay, and the bricks but half baked at that. It is the same way with the new lights of poetry and fiction. Authors write to please their readers—the wares must suit the customer, or he takes his basket and his dollar to another shop. The public now demands light literary ware of another kind than that required by our fathers. Instead of the tinder and flint and steel of Byron, Milton or Coleridge, they want the friction matches of Swinburne and Walt Whitman, with the match-box a little dirty. They will not put up with the wax candles of Scott or Cooper or Thackeray, so long as the gas of " She," and " Robert Elsmere" is flaring, with a leak in the gas pipe which fills the room with a stench offensive to the moral nostrils. The old light of literature has been enclosed in a dark lantern, the new light is a will o' the wisp. As for the old and new light in politics, the contrast is equally as strong. There never was a time in this country—nor in fact in any country having a nominally free government, where the trickster and demagogue did not come to the top. The fiercer the popular pot boils the more scum comes to the surface. But when the old light illumined the judgment of the people, the majority of those to whom public trusts were confided were respectable. There were not enough scallywags in place to leaven the lump. The highest places at least were reserved for the capable and generally for the honest. That suited the almost " dim, religious light" of the time. Now-a-day, brazen rascality and impudent incompetency spread themselves in the broad glare of the electric arc, and the public, dazzled by the new lights, are incapable of seeing the knaves as they are. It is in morals, however, where the remarkable difference between the new and old lights is shown. It may be a difference of grade and amount merely, but it is very great. They had clever rascals in the olden time, some of them quite skilled in the arts of turpitude, and possibly as many in proportion as exist to-day. There were liars, robbers of the poor, and scamps miscellaneous. But they were petty offenders. The best, by which we mean the worst of them, alongside of those who now infest the community outside of our jails, were mere lamp-oil scallawags, while ours blaze in the effulgence of an electric light of ten thousand candle power. Our modern Arnolds would not have held out under a million, nor would their treachery have required wrong to provoke it. The money alone would have been the motive. Our defaulters do not stoop to a paltry thousand. Poor Toby Watkins, a half century since, was behind a few dollars in his accounts with government, or rather he had mislaid some vouchers, and there was more stir about it than would be made to-day over the flight of twenty bank cashiers to Canada. Old Bob Swartwout disputed with the government about an allowance. He was proclaimed a defaulter, and the word " Swartwout' became a popular verb, the synonyme of which was " to peculate." Years rolled - on, and gradually the accounts of Swartwout having been thoroughly examined, it was found that the government owed a small balance to him. The verb " to Swart- wout " lost its force, and disappeared from all dictionaries but those of fools. Under our present brilliant new light, peculation and defalcation are merely parts of deft financiering, and, if it be done in partnership, though one of the gang may get to prison, to be let out when quiet settles down, another of the conspirators may arise to great distinction in the public service. Under the old light, they punished the engrosser, the regrater and the forestaller, and all those petty rogues who combined together to enhance the prices of potatoes or smoked herring. With the new light this is changed. Things are done on a magnificent scale. The most upright citizens, faithful husbands, tender fathers, compassionate philanthropists and pious Christians, do not hesitate to join a coal combine, a flour trust or an oil monopoly, or some other conspiracy to regrate, engross or forestall the fuel, the light, the food or clothing of the poor. There is no fear of punishment hereafter either, for under the glare of the new light the doctrines of orthodoxy have disappeared and the rich man feels that he will be able to exist in the nether regions comfortably, barring a slight tropical temperature ameliorated by sherry cobblers well supplied with pounded ice. Yet let us not complain of the disadvantages attending the improvement of methods and 26	SKELETON ESSAYS. materials of illumination. It is accompanied by so much that is good otherwise. Luxuries have become comforts and comforts, necessaries, so that we can bear some of the attendant evils, and feel courage to fight them. Where there is a very bright light, the darkness must be deeper, or seems so by contrast. Taken altogether the new light may not be so bad after all. Certainly no one desires to go back to the tinder-box for physical, nor to the old almanac for mental illumination. Having thus shown how the complete essay may be brought from the outline, and how diverse these growths may be, we now proceed to give a 'number of such bits of frame-work, or a number of topici, capable of the same treatment by a careful writer, and training him thus to a method which will enable him in time to make an outline of any subject for himself SKELETON ESSAYS. IS MARRIAGE A FAILURE? This is a sensational question that has been discussed of late, in the absence of interesting topics. Ideally considered, every human institution is 111nrch 1PQC a failure heralice every human in- stitution is imperfect ; if not in itself, then since human beings are themselves not perfect, and because it is subject to the passions, faults and follies of mankind. By a large portion of the human race, marriage is held to be divinely ordained, and assumes the dignity of a sacrament. With others again it sinks to the level of a mere contract between two of opposite sexes. Setting aside the religious view, and looking at it as laymen, the question whether it is, or is not a failure, can be readily determined. We have to consider the objects of the institution, and whether these have or have not been more or less fulfilled, and to ascertain their fulfilments we have to approach it in a practical, and not a theoretical spirit. The objects of marriage are various. In a state of extreme barbarism the connection of the sexes is brutal, even though not depraved. Man takes a wife by brute force, and the marital connection is maintained at his pleasure, and dis- solved at his whim. Woman, being physically the weaker, is his slave. The wife has no respect. Even the sacred motherhood does not ensure her respect. But from barbarism man at length emerges, and the first evidence of his civilization is shown in the increased regard and respect paid to the opposite sex. The basest husband learns at last 114 111 Ai AM A 1,11 JLUIJa J. MI* to cherish his wife, mainly through recollections of his childhood, and veneration for his mother. His children form a bond between him and their mother, and he desires very soon to confer dignity on his mate. Hence very early in the history of all peoples, begin certain forms and ceremonies to distinguish marriage from illicit conversation. He desires to mark his children as his own, and his wife as his. As civilization advances the position of woman improves. Here then is one object of the institution of marriage, and it is certainly not a failure in that. Man whether savage or civilized, is jealous of the right of property. What is his he desires to be exclusively his own. And this is more especially true when it is in any way connected with the most engrossing and tenderest passion of the heart. Marriage determines this, and its institution in this regard is not a failure. No matter how depraved a man may be, he is more or less attached to his offspring. He may not have for them the overwhelming and absorbing love of the mother, buthe desires their health, growth, progress and prosperity. He knows that they cannot receive the gentle but firm discipline, and the careful culture required for their well-being, without the influence of home. A father cannot make a home unaided. It requires a mother. And a wife who is not placed on more or less an equal plane with her husband, whose status is not recognized and defined, and who has no control of the household in the absence of man, can not make a home. She is degraded in the eyes of her children, who would never learn without her to love the father, but would merely obey him through fear. One of the main objects of marriage is to create the home, and in a majority of instances, it succeeds. Certainly, without it, there would be no home at all. Another object of marriage is to supply by con- stant association a bond of attachment between the parties, which becomes stronger, often un- conscious to the parties themselves, in after life, and to replace the fire of passion with the purer flame of friendship and esteem. If this object be not always attained, it does not prove the failure, since as-we have before urged, there is no ideally perfect success in any purpose of man. To cite unhappy marriages as proof that the institution is a failure, is fallacious. There is nothing more common than commercial partner- ships. Their main object is increased power for gain by the combination. The object yokes together those of different views, tempers and in- clinations. Now and then they quarrel, and they dissolve their connection. They can do it, because there is no product of their partnership for which each feels a continued responsibility. Marriage, having created this responsibility, can not be dissolved in the same way. But who, because partners quarrel, argues therefrom that partnership in business is a failure ? Human government, however skilfully devised, is filled with instances of wrong and oppression. The strong uses it to crush the weak. The poor man frequently finds obstacles in his road to comfort. Despotic or free, the same results attend it. Is all human government a failure then, and must it be destroyed ? So the Anarchists say. But when you come to consider their writings, you find that even they concede the necessity of 'government. Their destruction after all involves reconstruction. They propose to overthrow those who govern, and become governors themselves. Is all government a failure ? Let us consider what would be the consequence to society if marriage were abolished. It does not require a statement of the necessary result to fix upon the mind the social chaos that would ensue. Unquestionably married life is full of instances of the union of couples, unfitted for the condition, and unsuited to each other. A young couple pleased with each other's looks or manners, rashly assume an indissoluble tie, to find the chain a clog. The failure in that case is not in marriage, but in them. Now there are thousands of happy homes where couples are mated as well as matched, and many others where there is at least as much happiness as the parties would probably have had apart. But were the unhappy marriages twice as many, it would not justify the abolition of the institution. There are few unhappy husbands or wives who would like to see their children stigmatised as illegitimate. And if it be not the intent to abolish marriage altogether, why is it urged that it is a failure ? If not with that aim, why discuss the institution adversely ? If it have evils attendant, marriage also brings out the finer virtues. History furnishes not only splendid examples, but the ordinary every-day experience is full of instances where husbands have sacrificed lives for wives, wives for husbands, fathers and mothers for children. Again and again have splendid cases of devotion, self abnegation and intense affection in the conjugal state presented themselves. Thousands of in- stances are never known to the public, but con- fined to the knowledge of lawyers, physicians and clergymen, who have chances to see them often. These alone, if there were no more benefit from the institution, would suffice to relieve it from the charge of failure, and stamp it with the approval of the wise and good. [Let the writer consult any standard work on the marriage ceremonies of different countries and the various histories, for instances of devotion and constancy in the marriage state, and use the facts in the proper places.) On the other hand, those who have failed to reach happiness in the married state, would have failed to satisfy themselves in any other relation. Some are unfit for living in close connection with those of the opposite sex. With some the glamour of passion creates ideal expectations which can not be realised, and invests their companion with an imaginary perfection which does not exist. Some have not the grace to yield in what after all are trifles. Others are intensely selfish, or absurdly domineering. Some men are brutes, some women viragos. To condemn an institution op, account of exceptional ills, is unjust ; to propose its abolition, without anything to take its place, and substitute lewdness for the sacred domestic relation, is as wicked as it is absurd. THE DRAMA; ITS ORIGIN AND EFFECTS. The general impression is that the modern drama is a Pagan institution, borrowed from Greece and Rome. This is an error. The Hellenic drama appeared again in Rome, very much as the gods of the Greek mythology made their appearance in the Roman worship, no longer myths but forms, vulgarised and emasculated. Zeus was the king of gods and nearly sublime in his strength and wisdom ; but Jupiter was a brawler and a ruffian. Hermes was wise as well as unscrupulous ; but Mercury was a vulgar thief. Between the awful tragedies of Euripides, Aischulos and Sophokles, and the productions of Marcius, Plautus and Terentius, there is a wide difference as well as a marked distinction. We have nothing of the original spirit. A wax figure replaces the breathing original. With the decline of the Roman empire, what was left of the ancient drama died out, and made no sign. It was the church which saw in the drama an instrument for good, and as the monks used tales and fables to inculcate certain doctrines, so they employed the thirst of the populace for amusement as a means to teach religious history, or enforce moral truths. Hence arose the " moralities," and "mystery-plays," from which the present drama is legitimately derived—plays which threw aside the old Greek chorus, and let the play tell its own story, through its situations, language and action. With the church, instruction was the primary object, and amusement a means to an end. In the course of time, the church abandoned it, as a thing leading to abuse, when things too reverenced were represented ; and then the laity took it up to furnish amusement solely, and in course of time remoulded it entirely. The drama as we now have it, arose from this beginning. It is true that the French endeavored to draw something from the Greek, and insisted on the preservation of the unities in their plays. But the English and the Germans paid no attention to these, nor were the Spaniards, almost as close to the Romans as the Roumanians, much better. Their plays became the acted manners and customs -of the time, even when they dealt with the history of the past. The story of each piece was one comprehended by the common people except in the "masques" for the higher classes, where there was an affectation of the classics ; and the characters were drawn boldly from life around. They appealed to the sentiment, the sympathy, the prejudices, and, at times, to the frailties and baser passions of the mass. A study of the English drama, from the time of Gammer Gurton's Needle, down to Bulwer's Richelieu, or lower down to some of the recent New York or London "adaptations," will show its steady growth until it culminated in Shakespeare, one half of whose plays were his own, and the other half built upon the works of minor or unknown writers brought to him as manager ; and from that out its decline until it assumed its present state. It is no longer the drama of the church which survives alone in the solitary Passion-play represented occasionally in an obscure German village, but the amusement of the people, and its character, be it good or bad, is an evidence of the tone of morals in the State. [Here may be introduced something upon the varieties of dramatic representation, from Punch and the puppet show, up to the tragedy.] Whatever be its character, or its kind, no amount of abuse by the press, nor denunciation from the pulpit—and the church seems to be the bitterest foe of its cast off child—is sufficient to destroy it. In some form or other it is favored by all civilized peoples. The more candid of its foes admit that it is not wrong per se, and that there is no harm in telling a story through acting ; but they cite all the evils which they aver attend it, and insist they are inseparable and inherent, though it is quite certain that they spring from human defects alone. They insist that the stream is unclean, and, because those who live on its banks will cast impurities in the current, instead of policing it carefully through its entire length, they endeavor to choke up the fountain. The office of the drama. Primarily, it is amuse- merit. People do not go to the theatre as they would to the church, for instruction in their relig- ious duties, nor as they do to the lecture-room, to obtain knowledge in literature. Their object is to relax the tightly-bent bow of intellect, and to while away a few hours, without harassing labor of mind or body. The didactic drama .a.a	A. Air 111	1:/ IN P. ,LA •a• LAI would be an affront as well as a bore. The efforts of both dramatist and actors are to draw audiences, and to do this they offer what will attract the most. If the subject of the play be base or trivial, or if the dramatic action be of an immoral nature, it merely argues a degenerate state of public morals, or a depraved popular taste. The eject of the drama upon public manners is merely to intensify that which already exists. There are exceptions to this, thus far, that a drama holding up to ridicule certain peculiarities may drive them away. A notable instance of this Is In the case of " The Glance at New York," a local dramatic sketch, where Chanfrau gave a fair picture of the volunteer fireman of his day, and it had the effect of abolishing the oddities of speech and manner, of which he made a highly colored picture. When any evil apparently attends or follows -a drama, the play is not the cause, but a part of it. It was said that " jack Sheppard " bred burglars in London. As well say that " Oliver Twist " produced a crop of Bill Sykeses or Fagins. The radical cure for an impure drama is to cultivate a more refined taste in the masses. But that exists in larger amount than pessimists suppose. Let there be placed on the stage, a play, respectable as a work of art, with a strong plot, exciting situations and well- defined characters, where the story is pure, the incidents natural and pleasing, and the better feelings of man's nature appealed to, and it will draw pleased audiences, all the larger if the moral it teaches be sound, and the superiority of virtue over vice be rendered apparent. That there is a stratum of goodness in the basest, and at least a negative tribute to the right, is shown by the fact that even the very lowest of the auditors exhibit a delight at every triumph of good in the piece, and exhibit a hatred for the villain which extends to the man who represents him, whose unpopularity is in exact ratio to the excellence of his impersonation. The real reason why we have so many vicious plays on the stage is that our dramatists as a rule are copyists, and either unable or too lazy to invent, draw their material from the worst European models, giving us all the filth, without the wit that might relieve though it would not excuse it. With all the defects, and despite the evils which accompany the drama as they do every human institution, the general effect of the drama is wholesome, and would be entirely beneficial could we reform those who witness it. THE FALSEHOODS OF HISTORY. The most troublesome man is the earnest and conscientious seeker for truth. He disturbs our preconceived notions, by exposing errors which KEL ET 0 N EsAA ...as facts in our child /- hearts so long Oa fkorn whom we are I iv		shock so great as c)a uswvith pleasUt r-	11 of 013 r	r I v. c)-ma e can th at white L-0	moonli bushght IrnerrnaFs a terror. ji	0-1	s-sery. us. ogresa 4..zz	,1".	in tFiend srnile faitiarn, as ,hiNe. ;tChr"-if	cli•stt	tthQ zcs. t(3e.,31. 'V or jrbed V di'	Pre	ani? rc.ejz. rsil	e oci	t (4- 	lee-Ar -	---I•mmit,26 s t	eg. 17;75 "In t cry 01	1;" 11.1=-5 inthr	is..._ '11 ra ur t We- fr-'4495g-ard/6-111"------.41N-""girseri aS ° haininerlaY	feet" TeiL fragments a T not as 0,rie as ail 043h -mgli"%k of avex0 r. we embraced as facts in our childhood, and have hugged to our hearts so long that they have be- come friends from whom we are loth to part. In nothing is the shock so great as in history. We give up the bogy-man of our infancy without much regret—rather with pleasure. We dismiss, at least as much as we can, that belief in ghosts which made the white moonlight streaming over a clump of laurel bushes a terror. We surrender fairies, goblins, mermaids, ogres and three-headed giants to the nursery, and smile at the faith the little folk have in them, as we had in our time. But to have one's faith in the accuracy of the old school histories disturbed and even destroyed, to learn by direct or presumptive evidence that some of the stories of individual bravery,or tender- ness, or goodness, or villainy that once thrilled us, were myths at the beginning and falsehoods in the end, or were untrue ab initio, fills us with anything but gratitude to the busy inquirer into the facts of each case. We regard him as a pitiless icono- clast whose hammer has broken our idols, and as they fall in fragments at our feet, we look upon the destroyer not as one who relieved us from a delusion, but as an object of aversion bordering on horror. And yet many of our pet bits of history have to go one by one, and leave no trace. There is the story of Queen Philippa and the six burghers of Calais. What a delightful tale it was, ever fresh in the school reading-books ! The sturdy and patriotic citizens, giving themselves up as voluntary sacrifices ; two-legged scape-goats for the sins of their neighbors ; coming with ropes around their necks into the presence of the victorious and vindictive king, believing they would be strung up like onions, and yet as calm and self-possessed as though they were measuring linen by the ell, or wine by the quart, for their customers. Then the gentle Philippa, appealing to her stern lord for clemency, while the tears ran down her cheeks as big as green peas. To crown all, the relenting king, as many a better man since, not daring to refuse the wife of his bosom, pardoning the half dozen the offences of other people, and sending back the overjoyed half dozen to their wives and children, dwelling-houses, goods and chattels. In the back-ground stood the brave knights, each iron-clad like a modern man-of-war, and the proud nobles in velvet and fur, who, like the captain of His Majesty's ship, the Thunderbomb, in the ballad of " Billy Taylor," very much applauded what he had done. All these, with the aid of modern research are discovered to be figments, and the story an interpolation of the record of Sir John Froissart. Contemporaneous history ignores the whole thing. There were no burghers in peril ; and the gentle Philippa, like the mythical Mrs. Harris, " wasn't no such person," but a high- spirited dame, who loved blood and slaughter, and led her troops at Neville's Cross, with a blood-thirsty vim that would have done credit to any one of the murderers known as heroes to the world. William Tell, that expert archer whose arrow divided the apple on his son's head into two equal sections, and the arrogant Gessler whom he after- wards pierced but did not divide, with the popular verdict of " served him right," must these go too ? It would seem so. The most diligent search fails to find any Gessler in the Austrian official records, and Tell himself, with his patriotic companions are found to be a comparatively modern evolution from the land of shadows, or rather from the land peopled by Tom Peppexs, Ferdinand Mendez Pintos and Major Longbows. It is very hard to part with Tell. He is interwoven with the litera- ture of a dozen lands, he has been the source of inspiration to the patriot for many years ; he lives in plays and operas ; but the iconoclast is relent- less, and down goes our idol as though it were an image of clay. Lucrezia Borgia ! We have seen her on the stage, we have read of her in all the story books ; , she figures in novels many, and tales past count- ing ; and in all these she is the same hideous monster,incarnation of all vices that could degrade a female, without a redeeming trait. The modern writer has been at work in her case, and with a patience and perseverence that nothing- could baffle. Bit by bit, he has removed the stains and blotches placed on her reputation by the calumny of contemporary foes. Instead of being the poisoner and faithless wife, she is found to have been a much maligned noblewoman, worthy as the Roman matron whose name she bore, and a victim to the unscrupulous, the base and the depraved, to whom her virtues was a continual reproach. So the sovereign pontiff, Leo X, was for a long time systematically blackened ; and his rescue from an obloquy the most intense was a mere reproduction of the business of Balaam. Mr. Roscoe started to write his life, for the purpose of fixing the brand upon him more indelibly ; but as the facts were drawn from the record, the evidence became too strong for the historian, who was forced by his own honor and conscience to do his duty, and the intended libel became a thorough vindication. [Consult Roscoe's Leo X, for materials for enlargement on this topic.] Goldsmith compiled a History of Rome, elegant in diction as all his work was, but utterly untrustworthy. The old legends of the Eternal City were treated by him as authentic, and the worthless coin, gilded by his genius, passed current for a long time. Others followed in his train, and the English-speaking youth of both hemispheres had their minds filled with useless lumber. The researches of later historians developed the truth, and .before their light, the fratricide of Romulus, the disinterestedness of Cincinnatus, the purity of Cato, the Sybil and her books, and a number of the other cherished traditions fled to the Limbo of the absurd. [Use Arnold's, and Niebuhr's works on Rome, for instance.] Richard the Third has been set down as a crook- back tyrant, and we picture him as Shakespeare, to curry favor with the descendant of his successful foe, made him, and as Kean, Booth, Cooke and other actors of the intense school played him. We were a little prepared for this picture to be painted out, by a passage in the old Baker's Chronicles, which says—" It is strange that during this wicked King's reign so many good and useful laws were made, as though having gained the crown by pestilent methods, he strove to retain it by wise and just means." Figs do not grow on thistles, and vulgar tyrants do not enact excellent laws. We now know that Richard was but slightly de- formed, that he was a man of marked ability, with a statesmanship in advance of his time ; that his claim to the throne under the circumstances of the case was at least a fair one. It is not quite clear that the princes were murdered at all, and it is not quite clear that Perkin Warbeck, so styled, whom the miserly and mean Henry the Seventh murdered, was not the son of Edward the Fourth's wife. [See Walpole's Historical Doubts, and Miss Bacon's Richard III.] But Queen Elizabeth, the " good Queen Bess " of our school days ; the " Virgin Queen", the great and good sovereign, who brought glory to England only second to that afterwards conferred by the Cambro-Briton, whose grandfather changed his name of Williams to Cromwell,— must she be dragged from her pedestal, ruff, farthingale and all ? Alas, for all preconceived notions, our boundless admiration for the great " strawberry-blonde" of royalty! The State paper office has been searched with a relentless hand. The letters and papers of the time strip off the peacock's feathers of flattery. Elizabeth is shown to be almost all that Lucrezia Borgia was said to be, and in some respects worse, weak, vain, petulant, cruel and with but poor knowledge of statecraft—one who has obtained credit for brains under false pretences ; a painted and wicked harridan, without honor, truth, pity or remorse. [Examine Froude's History of England from the Fall of Wolsey to the death of Elizabeth, for numerous illustrations.] Our own history, both of the Federal Union, and the States, brief as it is, contains many falsehoods, that are continually being exposed. It is painful to see this, and to note how our most admired heroes have been stripped of much of the glory given them by friends, and some of the objects of our early hatred relieved of a portion of the odium cast upon them by partisan foes. In the case of Washington whom Weems and even others of more repute, invested with the attributes of a demi-god, and coupled his name with absurd and ridiculous anecdotes, this research has been serviceable, whether meant kindly or unkindly. It has let in a flood of light in his real character, and shown us not a myth, but a man whose natural faults of temper were held in check in general by a masterful self-control, and whose defective early education was supplemented by the training of experience, and by the gradual formation of a well-balanced judgment. Before his history was fairly investigated by the daring iconoclast, we stared at his figure with open-eyed wonder, and doubts as to its reality ; but afterwards, wards, when the hammer fell without more than chipping off the crust, we learned to regard the Father of his Country with an esteem that approaches veneration. But in the interests of truth it is well that the seeker after it should be diligent. History is at best the collation of imperfect evidence. No two men out of a dozen, viewing the same occurrence, will agree as to details ; and it is only by comparing their several accounts that we can arrive at a just conclusion. But the test of probability and possibility is sometimes crucial. THE COMPENSATION OF LABOR, Adam Smith, one of the most remarkable men of his time, or of any time, holds that the proper compensation of labor is the value of the thing wrought, and the thing wrought would thus be the proper compensation. If the material were found on no man's land, and were no man's prop- erty, the position would be right enough. But when the material is that of another, when the labor comes through the favor of another, when there is capital, which is labor crystallized, in- volved; when beside the manual labor, there comes in supervision, which is a species of labor, the ques- tion is less simple, and the answer not so correct. When a laborer works at the bidding of another, his compensation is known as wages. He ex- changes his labor not directly for necessaries or luxuries, but for the means by which he may obtain these. And the amount of these wages earned is regulated, if justly regulated, by the demand for the labor. If more of the results of labor be required than can be produced, then the employer needs the services of the laborer much and the latter can dictate terms. When there is over production, then the case is reversed, and MI)	A.7 .11.i. AN AI 4La1 J. V JAI AM A., I/ LA ..1. Lie the employer, aided by the need of the laborer, makes his own terms. It is the inevitable law of demand and supply. When we talk of over production, it refers not to the general product of industry, but to certain parts. When we say that our working population are not properly compensated for their labor, we mean the greater portion, and not the whole. For while, in some things we have, or may have, a production beyond the capacity of consumption, in other things it is the other way ; and while the great mass of our laborers may not receive enough wages to provide for the wants of themselves and dependents, there are those who have a considerable surplus, or would have, if they were ordinarily prudent [Here to consider the extravagance of the laborer compared with his grandfather in the same condition. But is it extravagance ? The invention ofmachinery, by cheapening the price of what were formerly luxuries, has made them necessaries by habit. Consult general or local American histories, almost any of them, and see that the lack of what are now common comforts arose not from thrift, but because they were out of the reach of the toiler.] That we have less distress here than in Europe is because of so much unoccupied territory, and the reducing of more ground to cultivation, and consequent building up of villages, towns and cities. Then the elasticity of action in our working people helps them. In many parts of the old world if a man be bred to a particular calling, he thinks himself unfitted for another, and, denied employment, falls back on what manual or servile labor he can pick up, or on charity, or theft. Here the motto is—" it is handy to be shifty in a new country ". This retards a little the lowering of the compensation of labor. Over production affects disastrously the price of labor. With the self reliance of a century since, our people could easily restore the balance in case of over production. The growth of the country has made a change. There seems to be less self reliance. People are beginning to depend more on government than on themselves. Politi- cal action, in both parties, is at variance with the design of our government. We expect to have labor regulated by law, compensation arbitrarily adjusted, and the industrious to support the idle. Division of labor. Trades are divided into specialties. Much of it done by machinery. This requires less skill, and tends to reduce compensa- tion. [Instance the planing-machine, etc. Examine the United States census for the last three decades, to show the growth of diversity of occupation, the splitting up of trades, the increase of special and decrease of general skill, placing workmen at the mercy of employers. This point to be elaborated, not losing sight of the fact that machinery, and division of labor, cheapens the cost of many things that would not otherwise be within reach of the poor.] Y- .0/ oftlir i INV a.. AIM IV N60 di. di "MP Concentration of capital in fewer hands another disturbing factor in fixing the compensation of labor. The smaller employers are giving way to the larger. This can not be avoided, being a necessary accompaniment of the large growth of a country. But it leads to a serious evil. The combination of' one side to lessen compensation causes the combination of the other to increase it. If the fight were between millionaries the poor might look on quietly. But when the employer with a million dollars crushes out the employer with ten thousand, the employed suffer. They suffer not only in wages, but through combina- tions that follow, in increased cost of necessaries. [Consult the U. S. census, and the Reports of the U. S. Bureau of Statistics. Take any article in common use, with the number of consumers. Sugar for instance. An in- crease of half a cent per pound in cost, may mean only an average loss of fifty cents apiece to families. The aggregate will be an enormous amount. Pursue this in- vestigation with other articles. Then calculate the effect of a slight reduction in the wages earned.] The proper amount of wages. That depends upon the requirements of the individual. The increase of population, and the increase of wealth increase these requirements. In a new country, to build the log-cabin or the adobe but costs little money directly ; the food is simple and mainly to be had for the taking ; the quality of clothing a matter of indifference. As population becomes denser, wants properly increase. Then there are prospective requirements. Man and wife, and the two childien to replace both, are not alone to be taken care of but any surplus children. Needs .46 of sickness or wants of old age to be considered. The alms-house a reproach to civilization, and the hospital, though necessary in accidents, otherwise an evidence of concentration of capital in fewer hands, and of the decay of self-reliance. To avoid both labor needs fair compensation. What is a fair rate P The amount paid for labor should leave a surplus over provisions for immediate wants, sufficient to permit the thrifty " to lay up for a rainy day ", and this without abridging reasonable comforts, good food, suitable clothing, complete shelter, and a few hours for mental cultivation, and that amusement which will restore the physical waste of toil. [Read Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations ; Edward Atkinson's papers on politico-economical subjects in the Forum, and consult the United States Consular Reports, for a number of miscellaneous facts in support of points. ] THE CREDIT SYSTEM. FAVORABLE VIEW. _Necessity of capital. In all enterprises of civilized society, money as a medium of exchange, for compensation of labor, or for purchase of ^••^II .Z.4 LA J. v .A.•	pal IV •Mor. ••• P. • WI material, is needful. When men organize sover. eign political communities, exchange of individual labor, or of one product for another, practically ceases. Money is introduced as the representative of value. If the man have it he only requires skill in its management, to make his industry or his skill valuable. If he have it not, he must borrow, or get his creditor to wait until he earns it, to defray his debt. Credit then is a necessary agent of individual enterprise, for credit is capital. Beginning at top. The government would have its operations impeded, or entirely stopped, but for credits. The capital of the government is the contributions of the citizens, or subjects, of their taxes and these are levied according to the amount of protection, that of life and the person being demanded equally, and that of property in ratio of the amount requiring protection held by the individual. But the collection of taxes, how- ever sure, is slow. Hence the State resorts to credit, and either defers its payment to certain set times, or borrows in advance of collections, from those who have accumulated the product of labor, and who permit the use of their money for a stipulated compensation. Thus the wheels of government gci on without cessation. Individuals spijeita to the same rules. A man embarking in business, and finding that his earn- ings will enable him to more than pay certain obligations, borrows on the faith of that, and goes on. Without credit, he would frequently have to pause, and• remain in idleness. As his credit mainly arises from his reputation for honesty, industry and judgment, his creditor extends indulgence. The credit given to him, is given by him in a less degree to others, and this credit extending over the community is an endless one which keeps everything in motion. [Meet the objection of frequent failures. This due to lack of judgment, misfortune or intent. In such a case the fault lies with the creditor in not looking more closely to the character of his debtor. Urge that it is a small fault compared to the advantage of a system which allows the stream of production to flow on without serious check. Cite evidence of the beneficial use • of credits. The building and loan association may be brought forward ; this is practically an institution of credit for a large amount, based on the stated payment of small sums. A man desires a house. He has accumulated less than a quarter of the amount of the cost. On that, and the payment weekly or monthly of a small part of his earnings, joining with others, some in like condition, he borrows from the accumulated fund enough for his need. The interest of the loan, and the weekly or monthly payments, amount to little more than the rent he would have had to pay to another. The amount paid for rent, which frequently amounts to 10 per cent. on cost, may be given with the amount paid under this form of credit. The instance of the growth of business in the retail trade by judicious use of credit may be enlarged upon.] ua	A./ XI. 12	LI	%,1 .LY	A.7 U£3.4 !u. Without credit, the honest, poor man would be crushed entirely at the first stroke of sickness or accident ; with credit he tides over that, or temporary loss of work, until with returning health or renewed employment, he is enabled to discharge the obligations. Great enterprises, which add to the wealth of the State and the public prosperity, and give employment to thousands, are started and maintained by the credit system. It unlocks capital and sets it in motion, increasing the general wealth, and developing the resources of the country. Without credit there would be stagnation in business, and the general growth would be slow and uncertain. THE CREDIT SYSTEM. ADVERSE VIEW. Difference between real and sham prosperity. One is actual earning ; the other is assumed. Capital is the result of an accumulation of the profits of industry. Credit is based on the mere anticipation of profits that may or may not come. The evils of credit are numerous and endless. It encourages extravagance, and discourages thrift. Were the rule " Pay as you go " rigidly enforced, men would rarely buy more than the necessity of the moment demanded, and never go beyond their mean: obtaining anything that present, with payment encourages unneeded curse of debt. A man, however honest his inter the instrument of injusti self. He often becomes L he is merely the victim ( The instalment system bane of the younger I marry, and propose to apartments ; with cash limit of their means, for instalment plan, they b furniture, to pay ft& it They buy ,more than I than they should. Sick] follow—and thin ? The consequences in su one, may be here enumerate The pass-book system • wife, having an industri tains weekly credit at t of such debts are not pai centage is put on the pr: the los6. Then the fai down in the book " inc unnecessary purchases. theie is no earning. TE 11/-=	V J.M. JAI Jirl as -A. V a, r It. A, as a N • needed, or goes on until the amount passes beyond the means of the debtor. [The tailor, the butcher, the baker—debts to these may be considered as part of the subject.] With cash in hand the buyer can go to any store he chooses, and the cash store is always the cheapest. The management of a small stock of money in hand, fortifies prudence and strengthens judgment. The creditor gives credit thinking the law will protect him. To the man who desires to evade payment the law has no terror. He provides for it beforehand. To the honest debtor it is a harass- ment. It reduces the creditors' chances ; for he can not obtain his debt if the debtor have neither money nor goods ; and the suit, by taking the time and worrying the mind of the party sued, reduces his ability to pay. A law preventing collection by the courts of all debts incurred after a prescribed date, would force cash dealings, abolish the immense amount of fees paid to crafty lawyers, sheriffs and-clerks, and prevent half of the misery in the world. [An examination into the record of the nearest court, showing the suits brought, costs paid, what amount recovered and what not, would fortify this last point. The "autobiography of Franklin," and " Poor Richard's Almanac" would afford valuable hints.] FOOD, ITS NATURE AND OBJECTS. Food is needed to repair the continual waste of animal tissue. That fact is self-evident. Nature provides the sensation of hunger, which may be natural or unnatural. The question first to be considered is " what kind of food ? " And to determine this we must ascertain :- I. What elements are wasted, or thrown off from the system. These are principally, carbon, oxygen and nitrogen, and certain mineral salts. [If not sufficiently informed, or to refresh memory, consult Bloxam's "Chemistry," and give a brief but clear description of each element, its nature and the proportion in which it exists in the human body.] 2. The proportions in which these constituents are found in the leading articles of food. (Consult Pavy, on "Food and Dietetics." Very trustworthy analysis of various fruits, vegetables and cereals may be found in the U. S. Agricultural reports, most of which are easily accessible.] 3. The nature and action of the digestive pro- cess, with the agents at work during digestion and -assimilation. [Consult Draper's, or any other modern work on " Physiology," and Bennett on " Nutrition "—especially the latter.] 4. Condition of the system at the time of eating. This does not refer to cases of sickness, when the nature and quantity of food must be left to the judgment of the physician. 5. The peculiar nature of the individual. Some persons thrive under food which is injurious to others. This is often because of variance in the strength of digestive powers ; but not unfrequently from the idiosyncrasy of parties. One man will -bolt an entire lobster, and sleep the sleep of the just thereafter ; a small fragment of the same crustacean will produce alarming symptoms in another. No assignable cause for this difference. A rooted distaste to anything a good reason for rejecting it. The craving for any particular kind of food, unless it be of a noxious nature, or no food at all, to be equally respected. When a child has a craving for green apples, that is the desire of ignorance ; where it has one for clay or slate pencil dust, this is morbid, and the symptom of an internal disorder. The next thing to be considered is the special ef- fect of food,not so much in the replacement of loss, as for the kind of loss it replaces, and the partic- ular part of the system it is calculated to restore. For this purpose articles of food may be classified : 1. Flesh-formers ; those articles containing a large amount of nitrogen. Lean meat, beans and cheese are instances. Many people labor under the error that the main business of food is to pro- duce flesh, and insist on the necessity of a nitro- genous diet, mainly, if not exclusively. 2. Heat-producers. These contain carbon, mainly, with oxygen and hydrogen, or an excess of these. Maize is one of the latter. They are also fat formers. 3. Bone-makers. These are cereals mainly, rich in the phosphates. 4. Nerve-nourishers, or stimulants. Nearly all articles of food combine two or more of these offices. A judicious mixture of articles of diet is such that all the claims of the system for reproduction shall be satisfied. [Consult Bennett and Pavy, as before, with Ainstie on "Stimulants," and Edward Smith, on " Foods."] Popular errors. I. That meat is the most nourishing food. Not even as regards nitrogen, for an examination of milk, eggs, cheese, etc., show that these fulfil the purpose quite as well. 2. That persons should take exercise after a full meal. Better let an interval elapse. 3. That late suppers are injurious. As a rule, no. Late gorging is injurious, and early gorging also. 4.. That stimulants just before meal aid diges- tion. Not at all. They provoke a flow of gastric juice, and increase appetite. They do less mis- chief at a meal than when taken on an empty stomach, and that is all there is of it. Taken at the close of a meal, if not of a too fiery nature, they aid digestion ; but where the digestive powers are normal, are not required. 5. That stimulation is followed by depression. Not so. If depression follow, it is because the stimulation has been pushed to narcotism. A man who takes enough wine at night to make him talkative and lively, will be apt to feel a headache and other depressing symptoms next morning. He will tell you that he was sober the night before, and knew perfectly well what he was about ; but that he is suffering from a reaction after stimulation. Not a bit of it. He was in the first stage of narcosis, or in other words the first stage of intoxication. 6. That eating at any but regular and specified .hours, is injurious. This is a pernicious error. It is well to eat at regular hours, if you have an appetite, but not to force it. Eat between meals, if you feel hungry. Eat—which means to masticate your food, and not bolt it whole. [An examination of the processes of mastication, deglutition, digestion and assimilation in any standard work on physiology or dietetics will give you proper views on all these points.] THE EVIL OF DRUNKENNESS. PROHIBITION VIEW. The evils flowing from drunkenness require no demonstration. They exist too prominently and too certainly to admit of doubt. For the purpose of consideration they may be divided into those affecting the individual and society. The evils to the individual are 1. An impaired constitution. Drunkenness is the result of over-stimulation of the brain and spinal marrow through excessive use of alcoholic drinks. Over-stimulation causes abnormal action, and this continued, disorders and at last diseases the parts over-stimulated. Other parts share in the disorder by sympathy. 2. Specific Diseases. Varying somewhat by the circumstances of intoxication, but mainly through the nature of the particular alcoholic drink indulged in. Thus from beer we have accumulation of fat on the viscera, hyperemia, resulting in apoplexy, enlargement of the liver, chronic desquamative nephritis (Bright's disease) and other ailments ; from brandy, liver diseases ; from excessive whiskey-drinking, or its sudden cessation, delirium tremens ; from gin, kidney disease and anemia ; while where there is a gouty diathesis, whether inherited or not, wine or beer develop gout readily. But the main trouble is the liability to disease which habitual drinking brings. 3. Moral degradation. The brain is the organ through which all mental action is carried on. To properly perform its functions it requires to be kept in a sound and natural condition. If kept in an unnatural state of excitement, the apparent result is the loss of mental vigor, and decay of the moral faculties. We say " apparent" The mind itself being immaterial is not subject to material change but the medium through which it acts suffers. This may be illustrated by the effect of different media on vision. Through the air or the plane glass, things are of one size to the eye. Using a concave lens, they seem smaller with a convex lens, they are magnified. The eye is sound in each case, but the medium is different. So with the mind, as manifested by the aid of a sound or unsound brain. Hence the moral degradation and mental weakness that follow undue stimulation of the brain. [Consult MacNish on " Drunkenness " and other current works on this subject.] The evils to society are:— I. Demoralization to communities. By frequent violation of order, and growing disregard of law. The basis for, and cause of the latter, the evasion or defiance of laws made for the regulation of the liquor traffic. The cause of the former mainly drunkenness itself. 2. Pauperism. Drunkenness, and the lack of thrift accompanying it, ends in an increase of the number maintained at the public expense. This is proven by personal observation, as well as through queries addressed to officials of alms houses and hospitals, and to those having charge of out-door relief to the poor. 3. Increase of crime. A large proportion of crime, notably all crimes of violence, can be directly or indirectly traced to the abuse of alco- holic stimulants. Certain crimes require sober criminals ; but these are few in number, and the lack of moral sense they show has been often increased by associations involving drunkenness. 4. Physical degeneracy of the race. The children of drunkards not only inherit the tendency to the drink-habit, but have less stamina than those of sober parents. [Examine " Alcohol : its use and abuse," one of the Appleton's Health Primers.] The moderate use of stimulants, so long as moderate, may not produce evil, but the danger lies in the fact that the bounds of moderation are so easily overstepped, and that it is likely to result in a habit requiring increasing amounts in time. Experience has shown that there is less injury to the system in an occasional drunken fit, than in drinking a regular daily amount within limits of sobriety. In the first case the system reacts, in the second it has no chance. Alcoholic stimulants are not needed in temperate or warm climates, as they are generators of heat in the system, and in cold climates, fatty food is better than whiskey. Even in moderation alcoholic drinks are not required by persons of a nervous temperament, and the stimulus required at times by the bilious or lym- phatic, may be readily found in tea, coffee, or other stimulants which feed the nerves without first touching the brain. As the beneficial use of alcoholic drink in a state of health is, at the very best, doubtful ; as in a state of sickness, they should be administered under the direction of the physician ; as moderation in their use so fre- quently passes into excess; as the consequences of excess are so ruinous to man and society, it becomes the duty of the State to prevent their use. The only ,mode to do that is an absolute prohibition of the manufacture and sale of fer- mented and distilled liquors, enforced with vigor. [See MacNish on " Drunkenness," and the publications . generally of the American Temperance Society, for materials to expand this essay to any desirable length. THE EVILS OF DRUNKENNESS. ANTI-PROHIBITION VIEW. The evils resulting from the abuse of alcoholic drinks admitted, and enlarged upon, with cita- tions from the record to show what violations of law, order and propriety come from drunkenness. The real problem to solve is not the evil of the vice, but the means to prevent or to modify it. Of these, two are mainly suggested: Moral suasion. To teach the child, from the beginning, the real nature of alcoholic drinks, and their effects in small and large amounts on the human body. This teaching must be exact. TO misstate, or even through excess of zeal to exaggerate, does mischief, for as the child dis- covers the untruth in after years, there is an in- evitable reaction. The difference in effect of each kind of fermented and distilled drink upon the system, should be truthfully taught ; the disorders and disease resulting from the abuse of such drinks ; their evil results to a community ; their rare necessity as medicine ; and the reasons why they are sometimes craved, should be added. Along with this treatment of the sober, from childhopd AT, the drunkard to be punished as an offender, and not petted and pitied as a victim. Even the man who becomes intoxicated upon a social occasion to be frowned on, and if it occur again "sent to Coventry ". In short, respect sobriety, and treat drunkenness as you would any other social misdemeanor. 2. By force of Law. To vigorously prohibit, either by general law, or through a local vote, the manufacture and sale of all kinds of alcoholic drinks. The moral remedy is the only one of value. The legal one is incapable of enforcement unless 'it be supported by a sentiment generated by the first, when it is useless. It is urged, in the face of this, that the evil, being so great, can only be suppressed by force. Prohibition of two sorts. 1. Local, by special law enabling a community to determine by vote whether the sale of alcoholic liquors shall be prohibited or tolerated within a given political boundary. This is known as " local option." Local option is immoral in principle, and a failure in practice. Immoral in principle. The right of the indi- vidual to eat, drink or dress as he chooses is inherent, and in a state of nature absolute. But it may be limited or checked by the supreme power of the State, when the individual is part of the community, provided, its exercise,in a par- ticular direction be productive of such paramount evils that nothing but the absolute prohibition of its use can prevent these. No sensible person pretends that alcoholic drinks are poisonous in moderate amounts. But if their abuse can only be prevented by prohibition, then the right to prevent their use by forbidding their sale seems clear. But when the power arises from such a cause, the right becomes a duty. The legislature can not, without committing a crime, authorise the mere majority in a community to inflict upon the rest an evil which it became the duty of the State to prohibit. Local option is wicked in principle, as well as a dereliction of duty by the legislature. ineffectual in action. The prohibition is within certain limits, and does not prevent any citizen residing within the specified space, from stepping over the boundary, and gratifying his appetite there. It prevents, to be sure, open liquor stores within the municipality, but generates illicit trade, without any restraint or government by law. Absurd in application. To sell in the com- munity where the vote is adverse, is a misde- meanor, an offence mala prohibita, and therefore an offence against morals. In the adjoining com- munity where the vote is favorable, the business is legalised, and the sale violates no law. Thus a question of morals as well as manners is de- termined by vote, and may be by the vote of one individual pro or con, an absurdity which is mani- fest. 2. General and absolute, by fundamental or by statute law, prohibiting both the manufacture and sale within the jurisdiction of the State. Practice has proven this to be useless as a preventive measure, and injurious in its effects. It has been tried in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, for over a generation ; tried in some States for a shorter period, tried in others again and again, and abandoned. Useless, because the concurrent evidence of statistics, observation carefully made, and results show that it has persistently failed ; injurious, because under it pauperism has increased, and arrests for drunkenness have steadily increased. [Consult the U. S. census for x86o, 1870 and x88o, showing a greater amount of pauperism in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont than in any other States, and its steady growth at every decade ; the increase being least in New Hampshire, where the law is more loosely enforced. See Dr. English's Des Moines Lecture, with its citations. Consult the records of the police arrests in the various towns and cities in the prohibition States, and the official reports made to the Massachusetts Legislature, in the Twelfth Annual Report of the: State Bureau of Statistics. Is high license Me means of solving Me problem? Scarcely, without a thorough education of the masses on the subject. In some places it seems to have led to results which give it popular favor. But a comparison between the number of licenses granted by the local authorities in these cases, and those of the United States Internal Revenue Commissioners, show that a number of illicit drinking places exist under it, though not as many as under prohibition. The only remedy seems to be the general instruction of the public as to the effects of the use of alcoholic drinks (that of the abuse being- well-known), not the assumptions of fanatics, but the truth. With this the prompt and sure punishment of the drunkard should be coupled. Mere bold statements that the average man feels to be untrue, added to a slobbering sympathy for the habitual drunkard, will not do. In this way the demand may be diminished, or perhaps stopped. Cut off demand and supply will cease. So long as demand exists, supply will be profitable, and prohibitory laws absurd failures. WOR RY. Worry, fretting over mishaps of our own or the failings of our neighbors, leading to anxiety and melancholy in one case, and fussiness and meddling in the other, is the characteristic of this country. It does not exist to the same extent abroad. There, when it appears, it comes through real cause here, it is often without cause, especially when it leads to meddling with the affairs of others. Abroad, the effect of the worry of the individual, takes the shape of socialism, or anarchy, because of the woes and troubles of the masses. The poor blinded Samson of the people tries to shake down the pillars of his prison house, and involve himself and his foes in a common ruin. Here, where there is less, though at times something, to complain of, the worry over the troubles of others arises from uneasiness, and takes the shape of societies to make every one better except those who are engaged in the benevolent work. [At this point an amusing account of the various so-called benevolent and philanthropic societies may be given, with the cost of their action, and the probable net result of their operation ; or any one of them may be taken as a type of the rest.] This form of worry arises mainly from the lack of sources of amusement. A stone hunter, a collector of insects, even the one engaged in that mildest of fun, hunting odd postage stamps, rarely goes into the worry of a society for supplying the destitute natives of the North Pole with ice cream. Necessity made us utilitarian at the beginning on this side of the water we were kept hard at work. As we gained more leisure, and necessity pressed less, we needed something to employ the newly-gained idle moments, and our natural kindness of heart led us to endeavor to make our neighbor better than ourself, whether he would or not. And we inspect our dear neighbor's dinner-pot, drink-bowl and clothes,—care much for the bettering of his conduct by our standard,—attack such errors of society as we have no desire to commit, and meddle with everybody's affairs but our own, because we have no other way of employing spare time. Over the troubles of those who do not know they are troubled, we worry ourselves into leanness, dyspepsia, jaundice and premature graves. Why is there less of this abroad ? Simply because there is abundance of amusement provided. The more despotic the government the more need that the powers that be should keep the people in a pleasant humor. Down South, in the ante-bellum times, the slaves had their cornshuckings, their coon-hunting, their hoe-downs, their banjo, and their Christmas festivities. Now Sambo is not furnished with these to the same extent, and he is filled with a spirit of meddling, and of marring where he cannot meddle. His white "man and a brother " at the North is in the same position. Amusement in France. There is enough of it. Gobbling a draught of light wine (chiefly water, with a light suspicion of alcohol), rustic fetes, or what passes for rusticity, and he worries little over his troubles. It is only in Paris or the larger cities where they worry, and that chiefly with government, not with private affairs. Bread and butter may come or not, but the Frenchman is toujours gai. His very sorrows have a mock appearance. Their exaggeration is on the outside. They trouble themselves very little. about the manners of their neighbors, and never about their morals. As it is known here, worry does not trouble the Frenchman. Amusements in Germany. The German has his outdoor frolic, with his family around him, an unlimited quantity of beer, his waltz, his concerts, his commerz, and his friendships. With all these he has no room for worry. If he have speculative theories, as to reconstruction of society, he rarely unless under the pressure of personal want,—attempts to put them in practice. He throws off his care as much as possible but does not attempt to nurse it ; he would not know how to do Amusement in Italy. The ordinary Italian never worries about himself at all. His notion of life is dolce far niente, the sweet doing nothing. Certainly nothing looksto be more miserable ;Alan the lives of the lazzaroni, or even those of the honest hard working peasants. A melon and a crust, or a dish of macaroni, with a flask of cheap wine make a meal ; rags are picturesque, and sufficient to cover ; sleep out of doors in a genial climate ensures pure air. Why should the Italian worry ? Amusemeat in England. Coarser as becomes the race and the climate, partaking of the brutality of the one, and the sluggishness of the other. Dog-fighting, prize-fighting, (both going out) climbing the greased pole, cricket, going .for a day out and coming home drunk—amusement such as it is. But in spite of these, and the concert halls, the common Englishman is beginning to imitate his kin on this side of the water, in adopting worry, and is thereby losing temper and flesh. Amusements in America only exist in the shape of toil. Just now there is base-ball in the ascendant, but that involves the greatest labor, intensifies worry, and has become of late a mere gambling device. In and about cities the main amusement is what is called a picnic, a mere drinking excursion or- worse, sowing the seed of worry broadcast, with a sure crop. Even devotion degenerates into worry. The American smile is a sardonic grin ; the American laugh a yell ; the habitual expression on the American face the contortion from a perpetual toothache. America produces cotton, wheat and tobacco for the world ; she grows a crop of worry for domestic consumption. SHALL WE HANG MURDERERS? YES. A life for a life. The earliest and most persistent impulse of man. An instinct in the savage state, modified into the decency of judicial form by civilization. Originally it was through a feeling of revenge, based upon justice ; but society has changed this, and converted it into a penalty. The object is to deter future as well as to punish present offenders, and to commit to the hands of the State what otherwise would be unregulated personal vengeance. [Consult various books of travels for the customs of other nations in this matter, contrast their punishments with our own, more especially the rough and brutal executions of barbarous nations with those of more civilized peoples.] The practice sanctioned by Holy Writ, as well as custom. "Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed." A human life sacred from individual violence, and the life of him who wantonly takes it, the property of the community whose statutes, as well as natural law, he has infringed. Modes of death considered. The sword, and its modification the guillotine, and the rope. Decapitation. Objections, the brutality engen- dered in the mind of the spectator by the sight of blood, and the doubt whether consciousness does not remain long enough to inflict exquisite mental and physical torture. . Hanging a perferable mode. In its favor :- i. Its antiquity. Haman, in the book of Esther, and other instances. 2. Its disgrace. This is more feared than the mere matter of death, and therefore adds power to deter to the penalty. 3. Its comparative humanity. In taking life through the decree of the law, and in accordance with justice, we have no right to torture or to mangle. Hanging does neither. So far as the evidence of those who have been resuscitated after strangulation shows, the death is somewhat like that of drowning, and comparatively painless. By the modern mode, however, even strangulation is avoided, and death becomes instantaneous by displacement of the vertebrae, any subsequent motion being spasmodic nervous contraction, with the victim unconscious. Objections to the death-penalty arise principally from morbid sensibility. But the necessity of the case should overcome this, which interposes itself on behalf of a criminal. The public safety superior to such a feeling. When conviction is had, the execution of the sentence should be certain. Objection that the criminal is rarely in a fit condition for death, absurd. His victim had less chance for preparation. If he can not be made ready, if the awful doom before him does not engender repentance, he is not fit to be a member of the community. Neither consideration effects the question. The law does not punish homicide in the heat of passion with death. The act does not involve total depravity. There is more or less provocation, creating a sudden deadly impulse, which is gratified before the passion has time to cool, and reason to recover its balance. But the cool and deliberate murderer, who with malice aforethought takes the life of a fellow-being, demands death as a penalty necessary for the safety of the citizen, and as an atonement to the outraged dignity of the State. [See Cheever on " Capital Punishment," Beccari's Crimes and Punishments.] SHALL WE HANG MURDERERS? NO1 The object of punishment is not merely to inflict a penalty for crime in the past, but to deter from its commission in the future. The record shows that the average of deliberate murderers in proportion to population is rather on the in- crease. The death penalty evidently does not deter. The causes of the failure are not far to seek. Mainly it is because of the uncertainty of its infliction, and while that uncertainty is partly in the nature of the criminal, it is mainly because of the nature of the punishment itself. Thus :- T. Not one deliberate murderer in a hundred expects discovery or if he do it openly, as a general rule provides himself with an excuse which he thinks will serve his purpose, or he con- templates following the act by suicide. Where it is by lying in wait, or by poison, his method is secret, and the secret he believes to be impene- trable. The death penalty does not deter him. 2. Detected, he does not usually anticipate conviction. The evidence in such a case, unlike that in passionate homicide, is presumptive. He relies upon lacking facts in the chain of circum- stances, of conflicting presumptions, and on a plausible hypothesis. He also relies somewhat on the sympathy with a man in jeopardy of life, and the repulsion in the mind of the average juror to finding a verdict that will hang a man, if a loophole of escape offer. 3. Convicted, he relies upon the law's delays, a possible new trial, and failing these, upon ex- ecutive clemency. [Instances may be cited from various-cases, some of them recent, where even after conviction and sentence, a new trial resulted in acquittal, through, intermediate loss of evidence. These are easily accessible.] Nor does the actual fact of execution deter much. Almost every execution is followed by a crop of murders. The assassin becomes a hero, to be imitated by the depraved, especially if he die game, as he generally does. In nine cases out of ten, he becomes a saint, expresses a con- fidence in ascending straight to heaven, where he will not meet the victim whom he sent to perdi- tion with all his sins on his head. A few days, and the punishment and the crime are alike forgotten. Outside of the barbarity of an execution, when it does take place, the objection lies to the unetr- tainty that it will take place at all.. Punishment for a crime should be made speedy and certain. If imprisonment for life, with no hope of pardon, were substituted, there would be less difficulty in obtaining convictions, and the false pity of the public would not be aroused to baffle justice. A life imprisonment, made absolute, is terrible. It is the burial of a man alive. It may be cruel to him, but it does not tend to brutalize the public. The State has no right to punish an innocent man, nor to tolerate any system under which an innocent man may be judicially murdered ; nor is it expedient to continue anything which, by the ex- citement of morbid sympathy, may suffer the guilty to escape. There are quite a number of instances on record where men have been convicted and executed under a strong presumption of guilt, and their innocence discovered when too late. To prevent this it is not necessary that murderers should go unpunished ; but that the punishment be of such a nature that reparation can be made for a judicial error. The blame in these cases has been laid upon presumptive or, as it is vulgarly and improperly called, circumstantial evidence. Nothing can be urged against presumptive evidence. If its rules be strictly followed, it is the best. But through prejudice, or through popular clamor, these rules are departed from, and injustice follows. The blame lies with ill-informed judges, and ignorant juries. The value of presumptive evidence lies not only in - i. That the facts on which the hypothesis of the person's guilt is based be all proven ; 2. That they connect in an unbroken chain and • 3. That they point to, and are consistent with the hypothesis ; but 4. That they are irreconcilable with any other hypothesis whatever. In other words the presumption of guilt must be inevitable, and leave no doubt for guilt. But courts and juries have again and again, in violation of law,. convicted on the first three points alone, which is no fault of presumptive evidence, but of those who administer the law. The naked fact, however, remains, that innocent men have been convicted, and this alone should prevent a punishment which when inflicted leaves no room for redress. [The writer will find instances in many causes cifikes, or reports of celebrated trials.] THE SPHERE OF WOMAN. The difference in physical power, as in habits, between the two sexes, depends upon circumstances, mainly upon training. If each be healthy, a man may be trained to be effeminate, and a women to be masculine. A strong and overpowering idiosyncrasy will alone counteract this. The difference in mental power naturally in the sexes, is not in amount, but in kind: It lies in the combination of faculties. In the average man the reflective powers are greater than the perceptive ; in the average woman the reverse obtains. A man generally reasons from established premises ; a woman arrives at conclusions by intuition. To this rule, however, there are many notable exceptions. When we speak of " the sphere of woman", we are not referring to the domestic relations, which 01E.61.61 VA' ffin,..elle are governed by the laws of sex. The question really is, has woman the natural capacity to seek the same sources of maintenance and distinction as man ? The way to determine the question is not by theory, but facts. There are to be sure certain occupations from which she is debarred by her constitution ; there are others in which to see her engaged would not only shock our prejudices, but outrage her feelings. We should be indignant if women were employed in sweeping the streets, or laboring in the public works. Yet abroad, where the sex is not held in the estimation, outside of social position, that it is here, they work in the fields and the mines alongside of men. [The labor of woman abroad may be treated on, consulting books of tratels, consular and government reports. The fact that wives are commonly the business partners of their shop-keeping husbands in France and Germany may be commented upon.] Turning to the higher pursuits, history is full of the achievements of women in competition with men. In science, Mary Somerville and Miss Herschel in astronomy have their counterparts in this country. In general science a number of women have achieved eminence, and it is not necessary to point out the brilliant literary female record. If our few female lawyers have not reached the eminence of the Italian signorina who, during her father's illness, was able to lecture successfully on the civil' law to his students. vet they do very well. As for the practice of medi- cine, our female physicians, from Mrs. Dr. Jacobi down, stand in their profession abreast of their male colleagues. Certainly in affairs of State, women have not shown their incapacity, as the record shows. [Cite instances from the many to be found in the histories of England, France, Germany, Russia, &c.] Women are not made for battle, yet from Joan of Arc down, we find them, when a high sentiment of patriotism fills them, leading the way even there, and our own history presents many a bril- liant example. [Consult Mrs. EIlet's " Women of the Revolution," and "The Pioneer Women of the West," by the same author, and Mrs. Dilke's `` Woman-Suffrage."] In art women is not so successful ; but Rosa Bonheur does not stand alone. Scarcely any one is unable to point to successful business women, who have won their way to competence by energy, decision and good judgment. The sphere of woman is a large one. It embraces all fields of human venture, and enters properly wherever she feels herself qualified to enter into competition with the opposite sex. SUPERSTITION. Superstition is not confined to the ignorant, although education limits its power, and somewhat curbs its exhibition. For men, no matter what contempt they may show for the followers of the Voudoo, or the fetisch worshippers of Africa, will not sit down with twelve others at table, or begin an important enterprise on a Friday. Omens, portents, death-warnings by signs or by apparitions, have their influence even upon educated men. The White Lady of Prussia has her believers among the wohlgeboren, and the Bean Sighe (vulgarly Banshee) of Ireland, is dreaded by the educated where she is said to appear. Men effect to laugh at the tales about the mermaid of the English, the merrow of the Irish, and the Mary Morgan of the Armorican people ; and sneer at the belief of the vulgar in the Bwbach of the Welsh, the Leprechaun or Cluricaune of the Irish, and the Robin Goodfellow of the English ; but they will rarely sleep voluntarily in a haunted chamber, or if driven to it by the dread of ridicule, tremble between the sheets, and are long awake before they suffer exhausted nature to drown apprehension in sleep. Superstition appeals to the poetry of our nature. The mind loves to dwell upon fairies, gnomes, nixes, trolls, and the whole tribe of imaginary beings. The grown-up man or woman, much as he or she may attempt to disguise it, dearly loves the fairytale. One who does not has a hard and unlovable nature. It is among the poetical races, those of finer nervous organization, that the popular superstition creates the most enchanting folk-lore. Compare the legends of Russia, with those of Ireland and Wales. [For the purpose of treating here on the distinction of supernatural characters, consult Keightley's Fairy Mythology, Sikes's British Goblins, Russian Tales, and Croker's Irish Legends.] Certain religious sects stigmatise the practices of others as superstition. It is not a proper term. Superstition is essentially non-christian, and the absurd notions of some believers are the deductions of ignorance. The stoutest agnostic yields to the feeling as well as the most devout believer; and he who inveighs most against superstition frequently shows superstition in the denunciation. The weakness is not a matter of faith, but of distrust. [The superstition of the Romans, with their augurs and modes of divination, of the Greeks, and of the Orientals may be treated here. Materials will be found in Niebuhr's Rome, Grote's Greece, and in any work on Hindustan or Persia. Consult also the encyclopedias under the appropriate heads.] HEREDITY, The law of descent to be seen in plants. In a wild state there is little variation, like producing like. Instances :- Under artificial culture, species of plants break into varieties. The higher the culture the more diverse these. Instances found in the apple, peach, dahlia, rose, etc. But there is always a tendency to recede to the baser type. Seeds of the choicest varieties will produce more inferior than superior new kinds. The same rule holds good as to animals, man with the others. But it will also be observed when a new variety is produced that it bears some resemblance to one or both parents. Otherwise, it has escaped the improved, and gone back to the baser original species. This rule seems to prevail in morals as well as in physical conformation. While the features of a child show those of both parents—or if they show that of one, then the back portion of the head is moulded after the other parent, so the moral characteristics of the parents are impressed upon the child ; but those of one parent are generally in excess of the other. The child will " take after" one of these so notably, that the peculiarities it inherits from the other in a less degree, are lost sight of. Shakespeare says- " In joining contrasts lieth love's delight." Hence in mating, persons of similar physical and mental characteristics are rarely brought together. But they transmit, like plants, their physical and mental peculiarities to their descendants. Sometimes there is a stop of the current. The seed of a rose will at times prove to be utterly unlike its parent, and yet the second generation will possess the characteristics of one or other of its grandparents. In the same way in human families, a physical mark or a moral infirmity may not show in the second, but will appear in the third generation. The laws of heredity are absolute. They may be evaded or postponed, but will assert themselves. [Consult Walker on Inter-marriage, and articles on Descent, Consanguinity, Marriage, etc., in any encyclopedia.] POLITICAL PARTIES. It is a common trick of oratory to inveigh against party as "the madness of the many for the gain of a few". _It generally amounts to this" pay great regard to us, but beware of the other fellows". But in a free government, parties are a necessary part of the machinery. Parties are based upon ideas. The ideas of any one may be wrong, but that is for its opponents to discover. The proper difference is as to the right and wrong mode of administering the government. No party can exist unless it has a defined policy in public affairs.	Its existence is a support to that policy. Equally necessary for the prosperity of free institutions that there should be two parties—one to administer the affairs of State, and the other to watch its action, and oppose its methods. A party so strong as to crush out all opposition, gives way to its own worst elements, and becomes corrupt in its practices. The more equally balanced in point of numbers the two parties are, the cleaner will be the acts of the one in power. It is bound over to good behavior, by the dread of being displaced at the next election. To object to the existence of political parties because each contain bad men, and these bad men engage in disreputable methods in party action, from the primary up, is to object to civil society—even to the church, which contains hypocrites and time servers. These misdemeanors are mere excrescences that are ugly, and should be removed, but do not prevent the body from being sound. The common cry that we are deteriorating, and that our political party practices are viler than those at an earlier period of the republic, is not founded on truth. [Examples may be found to support this position, in Benton's Thirty years in the Senate, Randall's Life of Jefferson, Amos's Science of Politics.] The excesses of party are to be reprehended. Were more honest men to actively participate in politics, the evil would be very much diminished. There is still a conservative power in what is called " Scratching ". There are a number of men attached to each political party, who, when the leaders nominate bad or incapable men, stand ready to exercise their right of scratching such a one's name off the ticket, and voting it thus, or substituting that of the opposing candidate, if he be better, or better qualified. Such men hold the balance of power, and the exercise of their right in this way freely, soon teaches the party-leaders the necessity of furnish- ing better candidates. Nevertheless, if the candidates be unexcep- tionable, and the party action be in accordance with its avowed policy, it is the duty of members who approve that policy, to sustain their respec- tive parties in all honest and proper ways. And this is not party madness, but a means toward the end they desire. It is impossible that parties should not exist wherever the expression of thought is free. No two persons can exactly agree upon everything. They will find somewhere, somehow or in something, a divergence of opinion. But between two proposed systems of managing public affairs there will be a choice that will be -taken by a nearly equal portion of citizens. They will differ on details, but they will be forced to take one of the two leading systems. The mode of administering the government of a free State will gradually narrow itself to one or the other, of a loose or a strict construction of the constitution, which is the fundamental law. One side will desire to strengthen the government, at the expense of popular right ; the other to increase popular power at the expense of the defined functions of the government. A few only will stand by the fundamental law itself, which steers between ; but these will be few. The majority will be centralists, or loose constructionists. So long as the two sides nearly balance each other, the constitution will not be seriously overridden by either. It will be thus seen that parties are necessary in a free State. Beside the check each gives to . excess in the other, they are safety valves. The young, the enthusiastic and the ambitious have a chance in party action to gratify their desire for movement and their hopes of distinction, which, without this, would cause cabals and conspiracies to the danger of the Commonwealth. [Consult Cluskey's Political Text Book, and the so- INSTINCT AND REASON. Instinct is an involuntary inward impulse, and Reason the faculty of deducing conclusions from premises. It has always been assumed that man, as a superior animal, was alone possessed of the argumentative faculty, while the actions of dogs, horses, birds, and the other inferior animals were governed by instinct only. It is at least a moot question whether this assumption be true or erroneous. There are numerous well-authenticated in- stances which lead us to doubt its truth. A Greenock (Scotland) Journal tells about a colley dog on a farm which, after being directed by his master to seize and hold a sheep affected by skin- disease, 4o which an ointment was to be applied, and another and another in succession, after the third, needed no more instructions, but took in turn each sheep that had marks of disease upon him and no others. It can scarcely be right to credit this to instinct. De Candolle, in the "Bibliotheque Universelle de Geneve " tells of two dogs on the sea-shore on a hot day. One of these writhed on hot sand in evident discomfort. The other scraped out the sand with his paws until he reached the wet part below, where he lay down in the cold, damp bed, and enjoyed the comfort. Here was reason, the result of observation and deduction in the one, and its absence in the other. Broderip, a trustworthy writer, speaks of a dog which had lost his master. The path over which the dog was running with his nose down led to a road that crossed east and west. When he came to it, he took the eastern direction, and finding no scent there, ran a little into the western direction. Still getting no traces, he ran at once on the northern path without putting his nose to the ground. Here was a clear case of the reasoning faculty, He went along the upper path ; he has not turned to the right or left, ergo, he has gone straight on. Other animals frequently display something more than mere instinct in their actions. The mode in which the beavers construct their dams and houses, shows judgment, and a knowledge of cause and effect ; and the domestic rat has again and again giving evidence of deduction. A study of the habits of the ordinary ant will at least raise a doubt whether even among the smallest insects there is not evidence of fore- thought, calculation and powers of inference. [In support of these propositions and to enforce them, materials may be gathered from either of the following accessible works :— Rennie's Insect Architecture, Morris's Dogs and their Doings, Bell's British Quadrupeds, Crouch's Illustration of Instinct, Chambers's Anecdotes of Dogs, Garret's Marvels and Mysteries of Instinct, Jesse's Gleanings in Natural History, Romaine's Animal Intelligences.. MRS. GRUNDY. In the old comedy of " Speed the Plough," the farmer's wife is nervously anxious about what a neighbor, Mrs. Grundy, will say about the doings around her. At last, her husband loses patience, and exclaims—" Dom Missus Grundy !" a bit of rustic profanity which though not justifiable, was at least excusable. The prevalence of the fear of the Mrs. Grundys about us, and its consequences upon human action are to be deplored. Every man has his Mrs. Grundy, and every woman too—not in any one individual, but in the aggregate mass. The reflection what people may say—people too for whom we don't care a straw, and whose individual judgment may be worthless, weakens effort, and paralyses independence. It creates extravagance. It begets a thousand follies. Instances :-- A young couple start in life. He earns enough to maintain a wife and possible children—nay, even to lay a little aside for a rainy day. She is industrious and painstaking. Prudence and thrift say, creep before you walk, and walk before you fly. Get a room, and what things are absolutely necessary, and no more. Add to them as you Can afford it. Let the addition be of comforts, not luxuries. But the fear of Mrs. Grundy comes in. Mrs. Grundy will turn up her nose at your poor little room, your six Windsor chairs, your pine table, your shabby patch of ingrain carpet, your maple bedstead, and your white-ware dishes. So the young couple buy, on credit, a smart Brussels carpet, gingerbread furniture for parlor and bedroom, nick-nacks, curtains and whatnot, and no less than three rooms are needed. The furniture is to be paid for on the instalment plan, and the creditor's weekly call is as inexorable as fate. A fit of sickness comes, the wages are stopped, down comes the furniture man and strips the place, and Mrs. Grundy says, " What fools these be," and in this instance, at least, Mrs. Grundy is right. A young couple better provided than usual with means to support themselves comfortably, are not contented with their quiet and easy life. They have no inclination for dress and display, for the whirl of parties, routs and fashionable resorts. Their tastes are homelike, and, let alone, they would pass through life in a quiet way. But the wife happens to be good-looking, and the husband proud of his wife's looks and manner. Or it may be that she is homely, but piques herself on her style. Mrs. Grundy gets in her fine work. She reports that the husband is a tyrant, keeping his wife out of society from arbitrary will, or because he is jealous, or because he is mean and miserly. Pride is aroused, and the couple, because Mrs. Grundy must be placated, rush into expenses beyond their means. The ultimate result is financial embarrassment, perhaps a gross scandal. Retrenchment comes when too late, and domestic discord replaces domestic peace. The old quiet of the family circle has gone forever, the luxuries have to be abandoned, and instead of plentiful comfort, it is often difficult to obtain necessaries. Mrs. Grundy shrugs her shoulders and exclaims- " A very extravagant couple !" and no one gain- says the judgment of Mrs. Grundy in the premises. [The politician who, at the dictation of a legislative caucus, votes for a measure at which his conscience revolts ; the man who spends his time and money in company with improper companions, for fear otherwise he may be considered to be wife ridden ; the woman who neglects her wifely duties for gossip and idle visits, or who indulges in expenditure for dress beyond her means ; the clergyman who fears to denounce vice lest he may be set down as sensational—all these may be enlarged upon as instances of the controlling power of Mrs. Grundy.] COURAGE. Courage does not always imply the absence of fear. When there is no fear, either through a brutal unconsciousness of danger, or that habit or drill which makes the soldier a machine without apprehension, courage does not exist. For true courage is that sterling quality which enables its possessor to face the peril lie appreciates with a firm purpose to do all the fighting that may be needed. Mere physical courage. as the world understands it, is tobe seen in the game-cock and bulldog ; but their ferocity, when analysed, is found to be an uncalculating combativeness. The same kind of courage is evolved when men's passions are up, and they are engaged in a fight. Perception and reason are held in abeyance for the time. In the same way, through the discipline which reduces him to a mechanical part of an army, the common soldier faces death with indifference. In these cases there is an apparent absence of fear. The passion of fear is generally begotten by a keen sense of danger, or by mystery ; and in the first two instances the sense of danger does not exist, or is balanced by habit, or overcome by stronger passions. Where the danger is vague it is more apt to weaken courage. Thus the best trained soldiers are not to be depended upon in a night-attack , and even in daytime some mysterious thing may excite a panic which ends in a precipitate retreat. But let the danger be defined—a battery to storm, an overwhelming force to be met, or a key-position to be held at the sacrifice of life, and moral courage is evoked. The man knows he is going to die, but he goes steadily to his duty, and dies at his post. [Describe the death of the Spartans at Thermopyloe, the charge of the Light Brigade at Balaklava, and similar instances from the various histories. The Christian martyrs furnish illustrations.] The highest kind of moral courage is shown where there is no risk of life. In fact fear of ridicule will frequently lead the individual to acts of daring that involve personal danger. Hence a great coward will fight desperately in the ranks rather than face the contempt of his comrades. Moral courage is the reverse of this. The man who in face of popular abuse, insult and hatred, quietly perseveres in his duty ; who continues on a course which he knows to be right in spite of sneers, jeers and slander, displays the highest kind of moral courage. Such a man is a hero. That is the courage which leads to martyrdom sometimes, but always to the martyrdom of the soul. [Cite and dilate upon the course of Dr. Jenner, the introducer of vaccination, amidst the assaults and ridicule of the public ; of Sydenham, who changed the professional treatment of small-pox, in opposition to the prejudice of his colleagues ; and of parallel cases of moral courage to be found in history. A brief review of the struggle of each should be given. The endeavor of Fulton, and his persistence with the steamboat in spite of contemporary ridicule, will furnish a strong instance. 1 Peroration.—The value of courage in the carrying out of ideas of public benefit, and developing the prosperity of communities, and its powerful influence as an example for others to emulate. [The missionary, the explorer, and even the invader are examples of what courage will do. The exploits of Dr. Judson, found in his Life, those of Dr. Livingston, Captain Cook, Father De Smet, Stanley, and others, all-accessible to the writer, either in their individual lives or travels, or under their names in the Encyclopedias, will furnish materials for working up this essay to any required extent.] STRIPPING THE GROUND. At one time Palestine was exceedingly fertile. In the time of the kings of Israel, the ground retained the fertility which had made it so attractive to Moses and his followers, for though Moses was not to inherit, he knew very well the richness of the promised land. To-day it is in great part barren. This was owing to stripping the ground of its forest growth. The woodland not alone shelters the ground, and so preserves and condenses the moisture, but is the cause of a more even rainfall. The forest removed, and it is not long before the rains become irregular—there is excessive drought at one time, and furious tempests at another. Mipor vegetation becomes uncertain. The fertilizing salts and the humic acid are washes from the soil. The land becomes sterile. The most fertile ground in course of time be- comes barren if over-cropped annually, without returning anything to the soil. The yearly loss is trifling, but it amounts in course of time to enough to render the ground unproductive. To cultivate one kind of crop alone, year in and year out, has the same effect in the end. The sedge- fields to be found through the older settled parts of the United States tell the story. The ground has been stripped there. [This prelude, varied according to the taste and ability of the writer, may be worked up, after reading almost any modern book of travels in the Holy Land, and contrasting the descriptions of the place in the present day with the references in Holy Writ to the fertility of Canaan before and after it was taken possession of by the Israelites. Having thus worked up the matter, draw from careful reading of a standard work on agricultural chemistry, the cause of sterility by over-cultivation, and then proceed to the real points of the essay, somewhat as follows.] The ground, dried and parched, from having 1-cen denuded of its forests, may be restored in time by judicious planting, and new springs start from the soil. The worn-out land, by careful planting and ploughing of clover or other means, and the addition of bone-dust, ashes and other sources of the required salts, may regain its fertil- ity. But when we have stripped the human mind of all its imagination and higher impulses by false rules of society, or over-cropped the young intellect by too severe mental tasks, the evil is beyond remedy. The present system of education threatens the utter destruction. of thousands, over whose minds there is rapidly falling the mantle of sterility. The curriculum of instruction in our common schools, already too large, is growing larger day by day. They begin instruction at six years, when the mind is entirely immature. If it were confined to the alphabet and the spelling-book, and but an hour a day were given to these, it would do no harm. But it does not stop here and girls and boys of ten years are filled with rules of grammar, mathematical problems, natural philosophy, and so on, until at fourteen they are expected to be masters of all the ologies. They are crammed as turkeys are with food. Nor is one step on the ladder of learning set firmly, before another has to be mounted. Such instruction is necessarily superficial, and in active life almost entirely fades out. The ground is stripped of all that pleases, and is over-cropped. It is time that there was a radical change. [Consult Hazeltine's British and American Education, Spencer's Education, Swett's Method of Teaching, Stc.) LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT. The first local self-government is literally home rule. It begins in the family. But it is not free government. It is patriarchal and despotic, not republican or representative. The head of the family is necessarily a despot. In a state of nature individuals aggregate into communities, and place some one at the head to lead, and assign to others certain trusts. The head soon usurps power. He becomes a chief ; as the community grows, a prince; and as other communities join with the first, or it becomes so strong that it splits into several communities, he becomes a king, and assumes absolute power. • In this state of affairs it becomes as necessary as in a republic that each community should govern itself. In the despotism this comes in order to relieve the central power of trouble ; in a republic or a constitutional monarchy, because the principle underlying it is part of the general freedom. Local self-government grew in many parts of Europe and in England, because the great nobles became so strong that they threatened the power of the sovereign, and the expedient of a rival power was resorted to. Hence the free cities, with their self control, and the trade guilds and mercantile societies, were created by the King, Id AL AN .44	A T., .1.11 44 14 4 .1:4. A. A7. not through any desire to make a portion of his subjects free, but to check the arrogance of the noble houses. But, no matter how it came, municipal self-gov- ernment, subordinate of course to the central power in certain things, has come to every civil- ized country, and come to stay. It even exists in a feeble sort of way in a semi-civilized country like Russia, where the villages manage their own affairs to a considerable degree: In this country it is the basis of our institutions resting upon a broader base, namely, the reserva- tion of individual rights. The States created the Federal Union, and gave it certain supreme pow- ers, reserving to themselves the right of self-gov- ernment, of punishing offences against their own peace and dignity, and of eminent domain, the highest power of sovereignty in a State. They create cities, counties, towns, and corporations generally, giving them the power of self-govern- ment, subject to the general laws, and the funda- mental law of each which is popularly known as a constitution. [Having laid out his exordium as above, in such words as he may think best, the writer will draw a comparison between local self-government and its absence, by giving a description of the management of a village in Turkey or other absolute country, drawn from trustworthy books of travels, and that of the city or town in which he lives, taken from its charter. He may draw a picture of the lack of safety to person and prop- erty that would follow, if this local representative form were taken away, and that of a cadi or vizir substituted.] It is often objected that municipal corporations are apt to overload themselves with debt, and that in consequence of popular suffrage,their treasury becomes a plunder-mine for unscrupulous politi- cians. The truth of this must be admitted, but it does not militate against the principle of the sys- tem. The State legislature might prevent the one abuse by restricting the legal amount of indebt- edness. The remedy for the other lies with the people themselves. If they choose to entrust their affairs to knavish or incompetent hands, the penalty of their folly falls upon themselves. In private business fortunes are often wrecked by the thievery or neglect of clerks, and banks and in- surance companies are ruined by defaulting offi- cers ; no one has given those facts as a reason for abolishing private business, or for refusing to charter financial companies. There are two reasons for local self-govern- ment. One is that the general government is thus relieved of petty details, and the other, and by far the strongest, that the people of a given locality know best their own peculiar wants and needs. [Consult Wilson's Debates on the Constitution the Federalist, Story on the Constitution, and cases involv- ing the political rights of th,e States, municipalities and federal government in the various reports of the U. S. Supreme Court.] THE DUTY OF A CRIMINAL LAWYER, It is frequently made the ground of censure of our law that a lawyer, knowing that his client is guilty of the crime with which he is charged, makes every endeavor to acquit him. It is said that an honest lawyer, in such a situation, should throw up the case. Sucl a position betrays gross ignorance of the principles which underlay our system of jurispru- dence, and, if carried out, would be productive of wrong and injustice. It would place every per- son accused of crime at the mercy of his advocate, and would leave many innocent men without a jury trial. The law pre-supposes every man accused of crime to be innocent, until his guilt be proven be- yond doubt. It requires that he should be pro- vided with counsel, have the compulsory attend- ance of witnesses, be fairly tried before a court of competent jurisdiction, and should in no case have confession extorted from him by force, trick or device. That is the essential of a criminal trial under our laws. A counsel is given him because he may be ig- norant of the forms of law, and may be too much excited by the peril of his position, to conduct his defence as coolly as if he were a disinterested or uninterested person. A counsel is his represen- tative in interest. The counsel, being his representative in inter- est, is to do as the prisoner desires him to do, ac- cording to his legal knowledge. He is to know all about the facts that the prisoner does, that he may more fully represent him. To betray that knowledge as he would by throwing up the case, is to violate his oath of office, and to usurp the functions of judge and jury. It is to basely betray confidence. It is to convert himself into a mix- ture of rogue and fool. But it does not follow that he must resort to vulgar trickery to secure his client's acquittal. It is told of Erskine that on one occasion, having to defend a thief, he learned from him that the linen he had stolen from the bleaching-green was of a new and peculiar pattern, and had never been placed before the public for sale. " Have you any of it ?" " Yes, all, hidden away, but one piece, which they found." " Get your wife and daughters to make me at once, a dozen shirts from it, have them done up, and sent to me the day before the trial." When the trial came Erskine wore one of the shirts. The complaint- ant identified the linen. " Are you sure", asked Erskine, "that no such linen is on the market ? " 44 Quite sure." " Please examine this," said Ers- J.VA	A7 JCIL G L rVI J. V ..LV .V4 1.7 A7 111 CID kine, drawing up his coat sleeve, and showing part of his shirt. " That is the same linen." " Good heaven ! " cried the counsel, indignantly, " Is a man's life to be sworn away in this fashion. I have eleven of just such shirts at home. I shall let this go to the jury, your lordship, without a word of comment or calling a single witness." The jury acquitted the accused. If the story be not apochryphal, Erskine descended to trickery of a low order. The prosecuting attorney, or counsel for the State is often apt to overstep his duty in another way, and to make it a matter of pride to convict, even if the evidence be defective. In this, he mistakes his duty. The counsel for the defence represents an individual. He is provided by the benignity of the law that the prisoner may lose none of his rights through inefficient advocacy. But the public prosecutor represents the State. The State inquires whether her law has been broken, and her dignity offended. Her investi- gation is not malignant ; the accused is under protection. If he be guilty, she demands his con- viction ; if his guilt be not manifest, she demands his acquittal. The prosecutor is her counsel to assist her in determining the point. Where he is himself not convinced beyond reasonable doubt that the accused has committed an offence, he wrongs his client by insisting pertinaciously on conviction, and if he resort to the art of elo- quence, or baser tricks, to ensure an unjust result, he degrades himself. [Consult cases in Celebrated Trials.] # POVERTY AND DRUNKENNESS. Poverty is set down generally as a result of drunkenness, and no doubt one of the conse- quences of the abuse of alcoholic drinks is pau- perism. Thrift and a besotted brain do not well harmonize. But is not the converse proposition to a certain extent true ? Is not drunkenness frequently the result of poverty ? Does not many times the poor wretch, baffled in the chase for a subsistence, resort to drink to drown his sorrows and console him for his disappointments, and so sink into a deeper depth ? We can only draw safe inferences from such as are part of public records. The testimony of the inmates of almshouses is not always trust- worthy. Few there will acknowledge that their poverty is the result of dissipation, except when they think it would please the visitor, when they are apt_to exaggerate the other way. The official records of pauperism in the several States would go to prove that abstinence from drink is a fruit- ful cause of pauperism—an absurdity that the judgment rejects. For it is a notorious fact that by far the greater percentage to the population of pauperism, both of those receiving out-door relief, or the inmates of almshouses, is to be found in the States of Maine; Vermont and New Hampshire, where the manufacture and sale of liquor has been prohibited by law for more than half a century. The census and other official data show that the ratio of pauperism there is more than twice as large as in the States of New York and New Jersey, where liquor is as free as air, and nearly as freely, imbibed. But that is only a superficial view. Looking under the surface, we find that the amount of intoxicants, imported as well as home-made, consumed in Maine and its two neighboring States, is frightful, and being driven to cover, those who indulge in the habit, are more reckless and more persistent than in the States where prohibition is not on the statute books. It is the nature of the human animal to desire the forbidden, and before that desire all laws fail of enforcement. But this is more strikingly true when the offence isnot one of those males in se, but merely inalaprohibita ; and still more when the law is made to protect the individual against himself, and not his neighbors against him. When the old blue laws forbade a man to kiss his wife on Sundays, there was doubtless more domestic osculation on the Christian Sabbath than on all the other days of the week. Drunkenness and poverty beget each other. A poor wretch, shivering with cold and pinched with hunger, getting a half-dime, which will not procure him a full meal, is apt to spend it in a dram, which gives him a momentary warmth, and a cessation of appetite. As quantity is more to him than quality, the liquor he drinks is extremely poisonous, and the reaction that follows incapacitates him from exertion. His doom soon becomes fixed. A visit to the tenement dens of our large cities will serve to teach any one the close connection between poverty and drunkenness. It is true that malt liquors are driving out ardent spirits to some extent, and the consumption of large quantities of these do not seem incompatible with thrift among our citizens of German birth. But they do not operate the same upon those of other nationalities, especially Americans, who are not phlegmatic, and who are prone to carry any habit to excess. The quantity of beer consumed in this country has grown to an enormous amount. In Germany, where they drink beer from childhood up, drunkenness is looked upon as disgraceful. Here it seems to be otherwise. Abroad the man once seen drunk is tabooed. Here he does not lose his social position until his drunkenness becomes common. [Examine the volume on Social Statistics of the last United States census. Consult Dr. English's Argument avv	P+ .J.A.	V 4. •	•^• 116.• si AM. /kJ • before the Committee of the New Jersey House of Assembly ; Governor Andrew's Argument before the Massachusetts Legislature.] OFFICE HUNTING, Political parties are doubtless a necessity in a free country, if we would have the fellows in in power, through fear of being turned out, doing less mischief than they otherwise would. But the continual hope of reward by the camp followers of either party has generated an itch for office which results in some very disgusting doings whenever one party goes out and another comes in. Swarms of applicants for place pester the victors, and one party in this matter is just as bad as the other. The crowd of applicants is mainly for the smaller and inconsequential positions, which renders the pursuit puzzling as well as amusing to the outside spectator. Go to any of our larger cities, and observe the number of applicants for the situation of policeman. Some of these are men who are better fitted to be arrested themselves than to arrest others. But the great mass of them are artisans, who can earn at their several trades more wages than the average policeman receives, with less labor, and far less risk to health. Why, then, do they covet such places ? It is not the reward, nor is it any fixity of tenure, for every - patrolman is pursued nightly by a roundsman, who tries to catch him tripping, in order to get some crony in his place. It is simply because it dresses him pendente officio in a little " brief au- thority", and gratifies his vanity. That is the key to the mystery of universal place-hunting. The applicant desires to be gaped at as part of the machinery of the State. He chases an office like men abroad do the stars and crosses of Knightly orders, for its intrinsic value. To this, in many instances, there is superadded in some offices, a chance for plunder, and here avarice steps in to the aid of vanity. Of late an attempt has been made to cure, or at least modify this evil, by the introduction of another, in the shape of what is facetiously called " civil service reform". This means to insure a life tenure in all minor offices, and so, after the fashion of England, to create a bureaucracy, to tie up all civil action with additional red tape, and perpetuate a privileged class which shall be perfect in the fine art of "how not to do it." Thus far, fortunately for the public interests, the scheme has been a failure. It has failed for various reasons. Foremost among them was the office-hunting craze, which forced the appointing power, in order to keep its party together, to evade or defy the provisions of the law. Then came the conviction among the people that the party in power should.be held responsible for the entire conduct of public affairs, and to secure this responsibility should be vested,with the appointment of every official. These two causes, operating together have rendered the law itself an object of ridicule, and its enforcement impossible. The assumption in favor of the measure that fixed tenure would generate attention to duty and civility of manner, has proven to be unfounded. The action where the law has been obeyed has been the reverse. The claim that it would secure competent persons has been equally overthrown by the facts. It has also been assumed that when a competent person had been found to fill an office, he should remain during life because his place could not be readily supplied, is equally baseless. Even in expert positions, when the party dies, there has neverbeen any difficulty in finding a successor equally competent. But the majority of offices can be readily and acceptably filled by any persons of moderate capacity and fair education. The higher offices require, though they do not always get, the services of men of higher capacity ; but these are exempt from the operation of the law. No one proposes to submit a Secretary of State, or the Governor of a State, to a preliminary examination to test his fitness. His appointment depends on the caprice of the President, or the whim of the people. But, perhaps, the general scramble for office after every Presidential or Gubernatorial election, or in the various municipalities yearly, is not the worst evil. Experience has shown that the elec- tion by the people in many cases where the ex- ecutive used to appoint, has given us no worse officials. One-half of them may be said to be partially competent, and a quarter not too scrup- ulous. The reason is not far to seek. A cabal rules in both cases, governing the President and the Governor, and ruling the ward primaries and the nominating conventions. It would be still worse if we had few changes in office, and cor- ruption and peculation were covered up by bureaucratic influence. The remedy for the evil of incompetent or corrupt officials consists in vot- ing against the party which selects improper men, and replacing it for a time by another. [Consult the public journals during an election canvass, and the local experience of yourself and friends. They will give you ample data, from which to elaborate your essay.] MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN. " Bachelors' wives and old maids' children," says the sarcastic proverb, "are well governed". The less experience we have, the more confident we are of our power to discreetly manage affairs, and consequently proceed to verify Shakspeare's 11.1. a&i1 4.0 .11JI i `61, 17	.1.41/ .J N •I4•—a. Pa • line, that " Fools rush in where angels fear to tread". Do we not, as a general thing, attempt to man- age children too much ? The little things are like trees—too much training and pruning stunts them, and too much manuring produces an un- healthy growth. The experience of almost every- one is that children trained too strictly rarely turn out well. Children are prone, like grown people, to get out of bounds that are made too narrow. The cruelty that represses mere animal spirits, and that forces buoyant children to unnatural silence and gravity, defeats its aim. Love for the parent is quenched by hatred of the oppressor. One fruitful cause of the ill-doing of men is that when children they were restrained from the natural enjoyment of childhood. They avenge themselves on society when entirely emancipa- ted from slavery. Instead of self-regulated free- dom they indulge. in license. They have, even when very young, a keen sense of injustice and wrong, and by brooding over it, their worst pas- sions strengthen ; and the parent who thought- lessly exhibits weaknesses before a child, earns its contempt. " If you do that again," said the angry mother, " I'll whip you". " I don't be'ieve oo,"	the little one. Children are imitative animals. A distin- guished writer tells a story of his own, which may amuse. He was residing with his family, in order to look after some property, in a wild part of the country, where his diet was confined mainly to salt pork and chickens. Butcher's meat could rarely be had. He expressed his dis- gust at this once or twice, loudly and a little pro- fanely. One day he was seated in his office, writing, when he heard the children at play on the veranda. " I'll play papa," said one of them, a little girl of eight. He peeped and listened. The child put its hand behind its back, and, strid- ing in long steps along the floor, said: "Dam 'f I 'tan' this 'tarvation any longer". While some begin harshly with children at the very beginning, there are others, and by far the larger number, who err on the other side. They let the little ones do as they choose, give them their own sweet way in everything, suffer them to smash their toys and other things, and let them be social pests, until they have arrived at the age of ten or thereabouts ; then they begin to train them. Of course, such training is a failure. The child can see no reason for such unwonted strict- ness. It understands the punishment, because it can feel that; to escape it, it generally resorts to the only defense it possesses, lying. The habits thus acquired, never leave it. [Contrast the difference between driving and leading. Early leading will rarely need subsequent coercion. Early driving will make leading, when the age for compulsion is past, abortive and impossible. 113	13adrA .6 1 VA! 150041.1 A. Cruelty in the parent engenders rebellion and duplicity in the child. Laxity of judicious control makes a child willful, headstrong and an "enfant leirible." A parent must be truthful, just and gently firm, to make a child truthful and gentle.] LUCK AND PLUCK. There are instances of absolute good-fortune wherein no design of the recipient can be discerned. The case of " Lord" Timothy Dexter, the famous down-east merchant, may be cited in point. It is said of him that in discharge of a debt, he took the only property the man had, namely, three thousand warming-pans. They hung upon his hands. One day the master of one of his vessels, about to clear for the West Indies in quest of rum, molasses and sugar, asked him what his outward cargo should be. " Take those warming-pans," was the answer. The master obeyed orders promptly, and the vessel sailed. Every one laughed at the ridiculous notion of sending warming-pans to a tropical climate. In due time, the vessel returned, well laden with molasses and sugar. "How did the warming-pans suit ? " inquired Dexter. "First rate," replied the captain. " They were just the thing the sugar-makers wanted. The tops made splendid strainers, and the vans fine ladles_ and I snld them all at a round price. The whole return cargo did not cost a cent of cash." Here was luck, pure and simple. But as a general thing luck may be found to have a basis of foresight, and a superstructure of pluck, which is only persistence in an object. Men are prone to talk of good fortune ; but it will be generally found to be the dexterous seizing and pluckily holding on to an opportunity by the supposed lucky man. The man who neglects the chance, or does not pursue it undauntedly, is termed unlucky, but without cause ; and pluck has frequently overcome the most continued ill-luck, and won good fortune out of the most unfortuitous circumstances. [Instances to be cited and enlarged upon:- i. Bruce at the Castle of Rathlin, off the coast of Antrim, seeing the spider, has his pluck renewed. He had been beaten again and again ; but takes new courage, and wins freedom for his country and a crown for himself. See any history of Scotland for particulars. 2. The victory of Crecy, in France, where pluck overcame numbers. Consult Sir John Froissart's " Chronicles." 3. The career of Columbus,—a striking instance of pluck. Consult Irving's " Life of Columbus," and Prescott's " Ferninand and Isabella." 4. Fulton and the steamboat. See Life of Robert Fulton. 5. The explorations of Africa by Stanley and others. .1.1%	041 Ile L J3r I V.LIF .1400.111 D. See Stanley's Travels in Africa ; Mungo Park's Travels ; and the Travels of Barth, Burton, &c. 6. The progress of remarkable inventions :—the cotton gin ; the electric telegraph ; the reaping machine ; the sewing machine, and others.) On the other hand the lack of that persistence called pluck has led to many prominent failures. Ill luck may be set down, in nine cases out of ten, to lack of foresight, lack of energy, and above all, lack of pluck. PRIMEVAL MAN, When we look at our savages in this country, as they were when Europeans first landed on these shores, we find them ignorant of the uses of metals, except possibly along Lake Superior, where, finding copper in its native state, they may have hammered it into a rude knife. Their usual weapons of war were the club, the stone axe, the stone lance-head, and the stone arrow-tip. In mechanical arts, they went no farther than a rude pottery. If some of the Western tribes distolayed ingenuity in the manufacture of textile fabrics, it is doubtful if this was not taught by the Spaniards. Even the dresses of the Mexicans and Peruvians were coarse. The skins of animals, poorly pre- pared, formed their principal clothing. The so- called architectural remains are little more than artificial caverns. Recent researches show that primeval man in the old world was very much like the same animal in the new. Between the stone celts and arrow heads found in the caverns of Europe, and those picked up in the fields of the United States, there is scarcely any difference. The white savage in the old time was as barbarous and as ignorant as the red was when the civilized man came here. He even had his cheap stimulant in the shape of starchy roots, chewed, and fermented by saliva. Mentally, the savage of the white race was not cultivated. To him the ,winds, the storm, and the lightning were mysterious things, forming either gods or demons, as occasion prompted. As he grew, they assumed form and became myths, and these became objects of worship. Above all the sun, as the source of light and heat, became the Supreme Deity. In course of time, as the mind developed, he locked beyond these things for the invisible Creator. Then religion became revealed, and assumed shape and form, and ftiller intellectual and moral growth followed. It was a long time before men aggregated into communities, and learned by combination to repress the wrong of the individual strong hand. Civilization was a thing of slow growth. It is preceded by an increase of mechanical ingenuity, and of the religious principle. Hence those mis- sions are most successful among Pagans that teach at the same time the constructive arts. [Trace the growth of religions, and the forms they as-sumo, among barbarous people. Consult for this purpose, S. Baring Gould's Origin and Development of Religious Belief. For other points, see Lubbock's Origin of Civilization and the Primitive Condition of Man ; additional information on the subject may be obtained by consulting the proper beads in Appleton's Cyclopedia, or the Cyclopedia Britannica, and a farther comparison may be drawn between primeval man on the two continents, after perusing Catlin's North American Indians, and the various ethnological publications of the Smithsonian Institution.] HYPOCRISY AND CANT. Some one has said that hypocrisy is " the homage which vice pays to virtue". A rather smart saying, as sayings go, but not a definition. Hypocrisy is rather a cloak used by a rascal to hide his designs, or oftener, a disguise assumed to gain a specific end. Sometimes, nay, frequently, it is so flimsy that he must have moral blindness who can not see through it ; but occasionally it is never lifted from the wearer, so impenetrable is it, until he be dead and gone: Nor is hypocrisy always deliberate. The practices of the hypocrite often grow upon him gradually, and even not entirely known to himself. It sometimes comes from an amiable rather than a malicious feeling, from a desire not to offend. Mrs. A. puts on a show of friendship when she meets Mrs. B., though she dislikes her. The pri- mary object may not be to deceive, but may result from an amiability which forbids her to show a lack of courtesy rather than wound the feelings of her visitor. It is all wrong, beyond doubt, but it is rarely hypocrisy, since Mrs. B., who goes through the same 'form with Mrs. C., estimates the matter at its true worth. This is the hypocrisy of form, and we can afford to laugh at it. But the most detestable hypocrisy, is that of the religious order, where the man assumes in public a correctness of conduct which he abandons in private, and a devotion he does not feel. It rarely inspires respect, since it is usually accom- panied by a Pharisaism which repels the confi- dence, even if it do not inspire the doubt of the on-looker; and yet this is sometimes not so much the intent to deceive others as to make up, by excessive observance of externals, for the lack of internal grace—a sort of debtor and creditor ac- count with heaven. Here hypocrisy is as much Weakness as wickedness. Along with hypocrisy comes cant, which is the attempt to make words supply the place of deeds. Cant is various. There is the cant of piety— a set of terms and sayings that are incompatible with true piety. The really pious man has little to say about it, and is by no means disposed to blow his own horn, nor to feel comfortable when it is blown for him. Your really pious man is humble and modest. There is the cant of patriotism. The man who really loves his country has little to say about it. He keeps his patriotism in reserve till there is occasion for its exercise. He does not think himself the Phcenix of his tribe, but loving his country concludes it is worthy of love, and therefore supposes that the mass of the citizens have the same feeling with himself. When Dr. Johnson said that " patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel", he meant the cant of patriotism—assumed by the very men who would sell their country, its interests and its honor, on the first profitable opportunity. There is the cant of birth. It is very pleasant, doubtless, to reflect that we have had a grandfather, or some remote ancestor, who was notable in some way, and wasn't hanged or sentenced to penal servitude. If it be an incentive to virtue and honorable exertion, so as not to impair the family honor, it is a very good thing to have. But to brag of it, to be thrusting the dead bones of our forefathers in every one's nostrils, is a kind of cant one gets tired of, and longs to meets some one who is not the little end of a family, but its founder. [The cant of honor. The cant of brains. The cant of public spirit. The cant of virtue. The cant of truth. Ad thfinitum.] Last of all, the most disgusting of all, the cant of money. This is the talk of the man who has nothing in the world, pOor fellow ! but his money. He is eternally talking about " we taxpayers", as though the man who toils did not pay all the taxes in his rent, and in the cost of his clothing and food, and despite the fact that nine times out of ten he makes, in some shape or other, an in- sufficient return of his personal property, and tries to have his real estate undervalued. He cants about the " solid men", which is literally true, the money getter, proud of his cash, being generally furnished with brains of putty and heart of stone, and thus far solid enough. Hypocrisy is the parent of many vices, but Cant, its eldest daughter, has a more numerous progeny. • WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH MR, LO? What shall we do with the copper-colored native of the soil, rather than what shall become of him, is one of the pressing questions of the day. The philanthropist looks a little to the good of the Indian ; but the greater part of the public is not made up of philanthropists, and looks merely to the good of the greatest number. With ninety- nine out of a hundred, the greatest number means "number one". What will benefit the whole country in this matter is the problem to be solved. Fortunately for right and justice, the well-being of the Indian is necessary to a proper solution, and facts and experience show that injustice to the red race would be apt to work a demoralization to the white, from the effects of which we would not recover for years. That the Indian would not entirely abandon his nomadic habits has been confidently asserted so long, without any show of denial, that men have overlooked its practical contradiction in many instances. There is civilization and even refinement among the Cherokees, and wherever the fragments of tribes have become possessed of property individually. As with the whites in sparsely settled, or isolated neighborhoods, even these have more or less barbarity of manners ; but in the Indian Territory the population as a whole will compare favorably with that of the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee, or spots in the hill country of North Carolina, West Virginia, or Kentucky. As railroads extend through the latter sections, the character of the people-changes ; and railways, from the intercourse they create, may be looked upon as a great factor of civilization in the Indian tribes. But the true mode to treat the Indian is to throw him on his own resources, by giving him his property in severalty, and extending to him, after the same term of probation needed by any other alien, the rights of citizenship, The vulgar proverb—" Root, hog, or die ! " teaches a lesson. He will march into civilized life through the gate of cattle-raising, wherein the nations of the old world entered. He will soon learn the value of money ; and a greed of gain, which is not quite avarice, will seize him. With this will come the need of the comforts and even the luxuries of his neighbors. There will be no scope for barbaric vices ; and those of civilization, which he will unfortunately copy, will bring in their train some of its virtues. Whether the intellectual capacity of the Indian can be cultivated• up to the American standard, may be as yet a debatable question. But that the brain of the red man is quite equal, if not superior, to that of the Negro or the Mongol, is evident. A capacity for eloquence, for bold thoughts and fervent expressions, has been again and again proven ; and he has shown himself, time and again, a rude but a keen diplomatist. That he has the material for the mechanical arts, has been conclusively demonstrated, and the aptitude with which the Navajoes, and most of the pueblo Indians show for the creation of textile fabrics, and for the preparation of leather, has been a marvel to travelers. Let him be thrown upon his own resources, no longer petted by the government and plundered by its agents, and Mr. Lo will cease to trouble. [In inforcement of these points consult the History of Pontiac; the accounts of the early settlement of the West; Ives's Reports on the Exploration of the Colorado ; Catlin,'s Works, and other authorities. I PATRIOTISM OR SELF-LOVE-WHICH? Patriotism, or love of our native land, is supposed to be a sentiment inherent in the human mind. This may be doubted. It is a feeling mainly arising from association—a mere inhabitiveness, and is shared by nearly all animals. Neither man nor cats have any remembrance of their birth, but both show attachment to the place where they were bred. This is evidently because they have become familiar with, and therefore attached to, their surroundings. The feeling can be transferred. A cat will return to her old home; but if transported in such a mode that she cannot trace her way back, will transfer her attachment to the new place, and will return there if she be taken away. A man will transfer his allegiance in the same manner. At first he will feel some home-sickness, and will make comparisons between the old and new residence, greatly to the disadvantage of the latter. The skies are bluer, the grass greener, the water purer in the old home than in the new. The strange people have less to admire in their habits, manners and actions than those he left behind. But in time he finds that the country in which he lives grows better, he fits into it, and after some years, if he visit his birthplace, he is disgusted with its ways, and declares it is changed since his time. But the change is in him. The new land has grown into him, and his patriotism is transferred. The question interposes itself here, is patriotism a love of country at all ? Does not its active expression arise from wounded self-love ? We do not Oppose the invader so much because we love our surroundings, as that he disturbs what is ours, and meddles with us, and wounds our vanity thereby. We resent a reproach thrown on our country because the place is ours, and the reproach affects us. In the same way, if the citizen of a distant city, though a fellow countryman, speak slightingly of the town in which we live, we repel indignantly an attack which is, in our thought, aimed at our pride. We are roused if the Briton sneer at the United States ; we are offended, if we reside in Philadelphia, if a New Yorker assume a lofty sense of superior advantage ; and the Philadel- phian who resides in what was Southwark is up in arms if the resident of what was the old city speak disparagingly of the former. Nay, it even goes far- ther ; and A., living in a back alley, glares vengefully at B., if he assume state because of the front street wherein he dwells. Patriotism is frequently the pride of possession. A man fights for his country as he will for his household goods, his wife, his children, his ox, his ass, or anything that is his. He is defending his own, asserting his proprietorship, and repelling that invasion of his rights which wounds his self-love. And patriotism is stimulated differently with different people. An Englishman loves his country as well as a Frenchman, but from a different point of view. The Englishman thinks England is the greatest country in the world because it is his country. The Frenchman thinks he is great because he belongs to France. The one confers, the other receives. The American is a curious compound of both, with the English sentiment predominating. His country is the greatest, the freest and the best, of itself. But then it ought to be, since he himself is the greatest, freest and best of all. He confers and obtains. It is a case of mutual benefit in the relationship. But, after all, there is a great deal of sham about the exhibition of patriotism ; much of it is in name alone—a mere mask for ambition, for the gratification of vanity, or as a means for public plunder. The noisy demagogue, the restless meddler, and the thirsty for the wonder of his fellows, assume it, without feeling its inspiration. Now and then, we have one who, loving the land that protects him, its freedom, its progress and its grandeur, is ready to sacrifice his energy, his strength, and if need be' his life to advance the prosperity and defend the honor of his country. One such patriot restores our confidence in human nature, and creates others, if not so sincere, yet oftener as earnest, through the mere contagion of his example. WHY ARE SO MANY POOR? That the rich are the thousands, and the poor, the millions, seems natural enough when we reflect that there is just a small amount of wealth per head in the country, and that superior means, better-directed industry, skillful thrift, artful trickery, or knavish combination—sometimes two or more of these—concentrates property in few hands, and leaves the many in want. But poverty is comparative. The man who has enough for his needs, and a very small surplus in store for contingencies, is rich. There are millions who have not enough for their needs, whose whole existence is passed in a dreary struggle with the wolf at the door, who live in want and die in misery. Why? We are told that, as a rule, the very poor are very improvident, and prone to expend their scanty earnings as a matter of whim, with no regard to the future. Doubtless this is true, and it is upon the principle that a wretch, in utter despair, will endeavor to drown his present sorrow in drink, though he knows in the end it will intensify his misery. Seeing no hope of bettering his condition, he becomes reckless. An inspection of the records of the savings banks, or the office of the Register of Deeds, will show thousands who have begun with trifling savings, and ended the possessors of snug sums, or of a house of their own, ultimately all paid for. Where there is hope, desire is intensified. The possession of a little whets the appetite for more. Once out, of the fetters of debt, and with five dollars beyond his needs, the poor man bends all his energies to accumulation. But when no such basis for action exists, he becomes reckless, and his improvidence assumes a chronic form. Inadequate compensation for labor is set down as the cause of much poverty. But compensation is comparative. A man who barely earns six dollars per week, and keeps his expenditure within five, is well compensated and he who earns twelve, and is obliged to expend fourteen, has no compensation at all. He gets in debt, with all its misery and makeshifts. Then the mechanic who gets his dollar and a half per day, in a rural district, where food is cheap, apparel coarse without a loss of respectability, and rent trifling, is better rewarded for his toil, than his RI	^Mlil• IOW eaN, 41.	••^•	.11•^• Pm/ Pa,	•M.	• fellow in the city, where food is high, requisite clothing costly, and rent enormous. It is not the amount received, but its purchasing quality that tells. Some men have no thrift, and an increase of income meads a greater proportionate increase of real or fancied wants. That our toilers are often badly paid, is true; but that is only one of many causes and may be neutralized somewhat by. economy. Many assume that the cause of so much poverty in the masses is because of some defect in the form of government or its administration, and upon the ground that it is a disease of the body-politic. We have all kinds of political quacks thrusting their nostrums at us, and each recommending his own. Some aver it would be all right, if we had but one legislative body to act with an unchecked will. Others assert that there would be no poor if we had no single President or Governor, but the executive power lodged in a committee, on which the proposer, of course, proposes to sit. Another holds that poverty would vanish if real estate alone were subject to taxation, and the possessor of personal property, though it amounted to millions, were exempted from all contribution to the public treasury. It never seems to have occurred to these observers that we, as a people, are following necessarily in the footsteps of other peoples, who rose in the past, became powerful, and then decayed. LAO	11	Zi i VAT Ilia 0 211 13 • When our forefathers settled this country, there were few among them who were rich, and very few who were absolutely poor. As we advanced in population, however, we advanced in wealth, and wealth became less evenly distributed. When we drifted into a sectional war, at an expenditure of several thousands of millions, the colossal sum expended afforded too rich a plunder-mine to be overlooked. Of this vast amount much was absorbed by contractors and others, and great fortunes to the favored few arose in a day. Before the war there were few millionaires; after the war their name was legion. The immense railway interests, which belted and cross-belted the country with costly channels of communication, aggrandized the few at the expense of the many. The great owners of these stocks combined to crush out the others, and the • combination succeeded. A very few obtained colossal wealth, and their possessions are such as in the early days of the republic would have been accounted fabulous. To such an extreme has this grown, that the possessor of a million is only considered to be in easy circumstances, and the man with a hundred thousand has his slumbers disturbed by dreams of the alms-house. The concentration of the greater part of wealth in the hands of a few, leaves less to be distributed among the remainder, and poverty becomes the rule, with competence the exception. Stock-gambling, now pursued with a ferocity of greed, is another mode to give great gains to a small number, and further impoverish the mass. Combinations of capital under the names of syn- dicates and trusts, are also used to the same general end. Not contented with depressing the condition of the toiler by the power of capital, they import hordes of half-starved workers from abroad to lessen the demand for labor, and lower its compensation. The wonder is, not that so many are poor, but that there are still those who are able to earn a proper living. The day of an equable distribution of riches in thiS country is past, and can not return. We have to go through the experience of the Roman empire, and see the country wax great and powerful, with luxury in the palace and misery in the cot. Then will follow national decay. Our old simplicity can never be restored, the more so that invention and energy have made what for- merly was comfort, a necessity now, and created wants that are the foes to thrift. All that can be done is to set some limits to the acquisition of wealth, or rather limit the amount to be acquired. [Consult Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, George's Progress and Poverty.] W	AO IL IL a	NV .11D.	w 1^•• 1•=1,	••^^ •••••• • SHALL THE TRADES DIE OUT? It is notorious that American skilled mechanics as they die are not replaced by equally skilled Americans, but by importations from abroad. And yet the genius of the American man is decidedly mechanical. The question as to whether trades shall die out in this country, would seem at first glance to be answered in the affirmative. At all events, if they do not entirely die, they will at least survive in a crippled condition, and for this result there are a number of evident reasons. The death of the old apprenticeship system is one of the most prominent causes of the deterioration of the men, while the invention of machinery for certain work, and the division of mechanical energy, have destroyed the dignity of the trades themselves. The old apprentice became part of the master's family. The master stood in lieu of the parent, and was bound not only to thoroughly instruct the apprentice in the art and mystery of the craft, but to look after his material and moral wellbeing. Sufficient time was allotted for learning everything of the trade. Frequently a premium was given with the boy, for the whole mystery was thought to be well worth paying for. This is all changed. The apprentice is taken for what can be made out of him, and he expects payment for imperfect services. He is no longer a neo- phyte awaiting instruction, but a mere hireling. He is no longer a part of the family, but an alien. Between the lax restraint of home, and the lack of control of the master, he grows up untended. The result is that the fine old dignified mechanic, one of the noblest of characters, has become extinct, except the few fossils of the past. Machinery has replaced very much the old handwork, and with it comes the division of labor, and consequent needlessness of skill. Formerly the shoemaker made the shoe or boot, from the cut- ting out of the leather down to polishing the heel. Now the machine sews under the guidance of one man ; it lasts under another ; it heels under a third, and so on. The carpenter used to plane boards, but the man and the jack-plane have given away to the planing machine. They saw, they mortise, and —perform all other details by machinery. Sash-making, door-making and all that, become dis- tinct callings. A saddler knows nothing now about making harness ; a harness maker nothing about saddles. There are ten trades where one used to exist, and few require more than a brief training. The mechanic is no longer a skilled artisan, but a hewer of wood and a drawer of water. Of course, in the rural districts, where transportation of prepared material is difficult, skilled men of the building trades will always be in de- mand. But in most other branches of industry, the skill of the handicraftsman gives way to the rigid exactitude of the machine. Nails ceased to be hand-fashioned years ago but before them the wool-card. Pins are made by a machine, and not only made, but counted and papered, ready for use. All the parts of a watch are made, and each so exactly like its fellow, that a lost part can be replaced without measurement or calculation. So much is produced by die work, and by appliances of certainty, that the only skill required is that of putting work together. And when the parts are all of the same kind, that sort of skill requires no set apprenticeship, and little practice. Some trades, indeed, like the old periwig-makers, threaten to die out. It is true that this state of affairs does not pre- vail to the same extent in the old world. Skill is more in demand there than here, and the use of labor-saving machinery has been retarded by the obstinacy of the workmen. We shall be able to draw skill for awhile from that quarter. But the same results will come there a little later, and then we shall have no place from which to import skilled workmen. About that time, possibly machinery may have reached to that pitch, that every object of manufacture will be made throughout like a pin, with merely the human machine to turn a crank, or tend the furnace of the steam-engine. THE ANIERICAN BOURGEOISIE. In France the term " bourgeoisie" does not alone comprehend the bourgeois, or tradesman class. It is not alone the shop-keeping element, but something more. It means that portion of society which produces nothing, and consumes only what its individual needs require,—that preys alike on the producer and consumer to gain its profits from both. Among the toilers there is a sentiment of patriotism along with the natural desire to better their condition. Among the nobles and gentlemen who have inherited wealth there is the same patriotic feeling mingled with a jealous opposition to anything that perils their social supremacy, and their allegiance to their own order- The one is naturally democratic in its leanings and acts; the other naturally aristo- cratic. But the patriotism of the bourgeoisie, the traders, the bankers, and the money lords, is mingled with a greed of gain which is essentially sordid, and stops at nothing, however questiona- ble, that will add to its hoards. It is naturally plutocratic, and its ideal of government is that of the purse. We have the same element here, and it is more dangerous than it can possibly be under a monarchy, or even under that form of government which in France is called a republic, and which .LaS	131i Z.L.EiTUlY is the mere temporary alliance of the moneychangers with the mob. Here it monopolizes the the 'Change, raises or depresses fictitious values of securities ; controls the great railway and telegraph lines ; owns the State legislatures ; has its attorneys in both houses of Congress, and infuses corruption into the whole body politic. It disdains petty gains, and counts its profits by the millions—none of this legitimate gain, but stolen from the mass, whose earnings it abridges, and whose necessaries of life it taxes to the utmost. Yet, as some one has called Russia, " a despotism tempered by assassination,"so, in spite of the power of the bourgeoisie, this country is becoming " a plutocracy tempered by the ballot". It is true that there is a large part of the voters, more in the cities and towns, and less in the rural districts, who vote as they are paid, and barter the most precious heritage of freeman for a mess of very poor pottage. It is true that there are a still larger part who vote without reflection, or are guided by prejudice or passion. But it is equally true that there is a large part, growing continually in numbers, that use the ballot intelligently, and hold the balance of power in the contest of parties, or in the struggle between the bourgeoisie and the people. It is to these we must look to restrain the arrogance of capital, to limit it within its just rights, and curb its encroachment. It must not be sumosed that this element of the bourgeoisie is peculiar to this, or to any modern country. It will be found to have existed in the olden republics and empires, and to have been one of the main causes, the leading one, in truth, of their downfall, as- a brief summary of the facts will show. fFor the purpose of demonstrating this position consult Mommsen's History of Rome, Grote's Greece, Sismendi's Italian Republics, Gibbon's Decline and Fall, and the article, " Venice," in either of the standard Encyclopedias. A comparison may be readily drawn between the money-making schemes and the money-making men of the olden time, with the methods existing now, and the effects of the old combinations upon the character and fortunes of the countries in which they existed. ] It will thus be seen that while our modern bourgeoisie is no new thing, its power for evil is increased by the gigantic operations of modern times, and the many inventions and processes which avarice uses for its ends; while to combat it requires even more vigilance and energy than was needed in the past. THE ELEMENTS OF GOLD. The chemists tell us that gold is a simple substance, an element which can not be reduced to two or more substances. The philosopher, however, who looks beyond the surface, and studies effects in order to trace them up to causes, will see that this seeming element is made up of various parts, and that these can be traced and defined with a certain amount of precision. The first element is blood. The conquest of Mexico and Peru, the subjugation of India, the history of the world everywhere, shows how essential this element is to the perfection of gold. [Consult and draw illustrations from Heap's Spanish Conquest, Robertson's South America, Prescott's Mex- ico, and the speeches of Burke and Sheridan at the impeachment of Warren Hastings.] Another element is crime. There is not a burglary, a fraud, a forgery or a robbery, which does not furnish its share to the creation of gold. A third element is meanness. The avarice of the miser, the grasping greed of the trusts, mak- ing their enormous gains from the cent or even the half-cent daily of the toiling millions, prove the need of this element in order to give gold its character. Another element is falsehood. There is no lie so base as to be shunned by the maker of gold. The false reports that raise or depress the stock market, the impudently untrue statements of the party press, the assumption of piety as a cloak to villainy, all these are essential to the making of gold. [There are other elements, tears, sorrows, the hunger of toilers, the misery of the defrauded, &c., which can be worked up by the writer.] CITY versus COUNTRY. Men talk of the beauties of a rural life. As a pendant to luxurious living in the city, it wilt do to boast of. A splendid country-seat, with a magnificent country mansion, well-filled stables, fine drives and riding paths, a dozen trained servants, a skilled French cook with a staff of assistants, and hosts of genial guests, will make country life even more than endurable for two months or even three of the year. But this is not what people mean when they talk of the country. They mean the country life of the poor, or at best of the thrifty farmer. And what is the farmer's life in the country ? A lot of persistent and unrelieved toil. " Early to bed and early to rise," and all but the time spent between the sheets devoted to continuous hard work for scanty and precarious gain. All the household comforts of the city, water, gas, furnace-heating, choice of an infinite variety of food—these are denied the rural dwellers. To indulge in such things would be an extravagance leading to ruin. Men talk of the fresh air of the country. But it is only to be had during the day, and then only at a distance from the dwelling-house. The farmer generally looks upon the muck-heap as a gold mine, and he is right from an economic point of view. He loves it so that he must locate it 111/110,	41.0. 41W db., 41WW, Ai II, elk.	min. I. I M AWIlk MBtii • near his house, and the exhalations from putrescent vegetable matter, not only furnish a stench for the nostrils, but a malaria which pervades the dwelling and saps health and strength. From it, and from another domestic source, comes the- drainage which pollutes the well. And to counterbalance the advantages of the open air, a fear of the atmosphere at night which is an inherent prejudice of the rural dweller, causes him to sleep in closed chambers, where, his breath charges the space around him with poisonous carbonic dioxide—a temporary blackhole of Calcutta. The windows of the average country house will neither go up, nor be let down, easily. He is unacquainted with wire screens and their uses, and is consequently the prey to the ferocious mosquito. What amusements enliven his life ? Almost literally none, beyond a visit to church twice on Sundays, where he discusses politics or makes horse-trades in the wagon-shed previous to service, or naps placidly through the sermon. He has no theatre, no concerts, no lectures—no social calls of evenings. Once a year, it is true, he has the intellectual treat of bare-back riding at the traveling circus, and twice or four times a year at most, the delights of the county court, where if lucky he may serve on the grand jury. Beyond these the rural life is one continued grind. And then, what are the gains ? Few, and only to be had by denying himself and family com- forts, and living and doing in a mean and sordid way. The butter goes to market—he cannot af- ford to eat it, at the price it brings in the city. Butcher's meat is a rarity, and the fowls go where they meet a cash return. As for clothes, it is enough that they cover him, and when they will no more hold together can be utilised as a scare crow in the corn field. And the uncertainty of the crops. Rains on one hand and drought on the other, rust, blight, mildew, worms, caterpillars and a host of insect enemies, all these come to baffle the rural dweller, none of which assail the city man. [Roosevelt's Five Acres Enough will afford useful hints to the writer, and the essays of the entomologists in the U. S. Patent Office Reports Will give others.] COUNTRY versus CITY. That the rich, who can maintain their tall palaces in the city, furnished with all the appli- ances of luxury, and crowded with supple flun- kies, should look upon rural life only as an incident, is not surprising. That the toiling masses remain there, living in inconvenient houses, or portions of houses, is the necessity of their labor, which they can only find there. But that •^•• A.M. mama' ^•••• ^•••IN 411% 'tar aft I	PI, MO ...M. NO. .11111 those who are bred in the country, flock to crowded cities, and to a life so different to that in which they have been trained, can not be readily accounted for except on the basis of infatuation. The population of the condensed communities receives large accessions yearly from among the farmer's sons and daughters, all under the spell of that fascination embodied in the French peasant's saying—" See Paris, and then die ". Something is due to ambition, and the desire tc make a name, or acquire a fortune. And yet it is but an unreasoning ambition. The young -mar who is looked upon in the village, or the rural district, as a being of phenomenal smartness; plunges into the crowded city, expecting to foal grandly, and in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, is lost in the current At home, he had a local distinction, or was in a fair way to achieve it. " Among the blind, the one-eyed man is king." But among those who have perfect vision, the one-eyed man is only an object of pity. Another cause of the rural exodus is the unrest-fulness of many natures, who pine in the quiet of the country, and think their active nature has no scope for its exercise until it comes in contact and enters into competition with those of a similar constitution. It is an error that is soon found out, and often grievously atoned for. Many fail, and their social and moral wrecks are strewn around. A few succeed ; but of these the greater part . purchase success with the loss of health, happiness and content. It is true that there is continual amusement at first to the rural corner. The bustle, whirl and din of the streets, the theatres, and the sights free or paid for—especially those which cost him nothing ; the constant excitement of city life, take some time before they pall upon him. He does not miss the old rural scenery. Accustomed to it from his birth it never had attraction for him. Like the air he breathed, he never stopped to examine it. But the health that came from the pure air, the pure water, and the out door life, with its sense of independence, if he should not miss it, is sure to tell on him, and nature revenges the change in her surroundings. Men tell us that the rural dweller invariably makes his house uncomfortable ; that he lacks the conveniences of city life as well as its comforts. But the humblest but in the country is preferable to the tenement-dens of the large cities, where men, women and children are packed together, generating foul air, which is mingled with the 'stenches of the kennel. The rich, or those fairly well off, do not so suffer ; but these can have com- forts in country, as well as city. It is the poor who will find the country preferable, morally, socially, and in the, end pecuniarily. If their gains be less, they are surer ; and industry, economy and thrift reap more certain rewards in the coun- try than they do in the city, where rent, fuel and food are dearer, and take off a greater percentage from the gross earnings. [The life of the city mechanic or laborer, compared with that of his fellow in the country, may be given in detail, and tables of comparative longevity, rural and urban, with the respective death-rates, may be used with effect.] LITTLE BOOKS. At the beginning of printing, folios and quartos were the rule, and even octavos the exception, while a duodecimo was rarely seen. This was because men were accustomed to the manuscripts engrossed upon sheets of parchment. The type was usually large, and the s ornamented by more or less illumination. Books were costly, and their use confined to the learned. The learned were few. The great mass were ignorant, and too poor, had they been otherwise, to be book-buyers. As the mystery of reading became more diffused there came a demand for more portable volumes at a less cost. Books were no longer the tools of the learned. They became vehicles of amusement as well as of instruction. The gestes of the middle ages became the tales of a later period, and these expanded to the romance. The appetite grew upon the meat with which it was fed. But as the lower class became buyers of literature, literature cheapened to sup- ply the demand. In process of time it was seen that instruction was required as well as amusement, and instruc- tion in a rudimentary form. Hence came the minor text-books, the abridgments and the manuals. They came to remain, for the world will not do without them. Then it became profit- able to cull the best flowers of fancy, and the most salient points of science, and to make selec- tions and collections for those who had neither time nor inclination to wade through numberless volumes, and who preferred superficial knowl- edge to none at all. Larger works are still printed, but their readers are comparatively few. Smaller ones are issued in almost countless num- bers, and the name of their readers is legion. Jumping too quickly to conclusions, many have asserted that these smaller works are the bane of learning, and that they disseminate shallow knowledge. Granted; and yet it is not for the well-wisher of his kind to complain. Facts that would be otherwise confined to a few, are im- pressed upon the general mind, and every now and then, some one is stimulated thereby to closer study, and given a thirst for the acquisition of knowledge that would not otherwise exist. Small books are the primers of science, art, history, and all the varieties of knowledge. It is simply wonderful to note how vast is the circulation of these little missionaries of information. They are printed by millions, and added to them in many millions more are the magazines and journals, which are only little books of daily, weekly, or monthly issue. They contain an enormous amount of knowledge, in almost infinite variety, and they produce an amount of human happiness and comfort not to be calculated. The increased postal facilities of the country, and the ease and certainty with which printed matter-can be transmitted to remote sections, have increased the circulation of these small books, until there is scarcely a cottage without its book-shelf, and scarcely a family without these silent companions. Some of the ablest authors and scholars of the country have bent their talents and learning to the writing and compiling of little books, and publishers find profit in catering for a demand which has grown wonderfully in the past, and is destined to greater growth in the future. [Consult D'Israeli's Curiosities of Literature, and various Bibliographical treatises for information needed for an expansion of the theme.] MANLY CHARACTER. Character and reputation are two distinct things, though usually confounded ; for a man may have a strong character, whether his reputation be good or bad ; and with a bad character may have a good reputation. Character shows what we are, and reputation what others think of us. It is very pleasant to have a good reputation ; it pleases our vanity that the world should think well of us ; we are sensitive to the slightest breath of slander ; but life is so short, and the hereafter so endless, that the object should be mainly to fix and determine our individual character, and mainly to let reputation vindicate itself, as it is sure to do sooner or later if the conduct be right. Many men have the reputation of being " good fellows", " clever fellows," " good-hearted," and all that, who are lacking in most, if not all, of the elements of manly character. Boldness for right characterizes the perfect man. Yet it is so often lacking that its presence excites wonder, and often A. and B. meet C. with a crowd; and C. accuses D., who is absent, of various peccadillos. After C. and the crowd have left, A. says to B., " He shouldn't talk of D. so, for I know that his charges are not true." " Well," quoth B., " why didn't you say so in the presence of all those fellowiti." " Oh, it isn't my affair, you know. Why should I get ill will on D.'s account ?" Yet had A. seen C. putting his fingers in D.'s money-drawer, he would have raised an outcry and summoned the police. He is silent while C. is committing a worse larceny, pilfering D.'s reputation. In the first case, there was danger of a quarrel, and the loss of worthless friendship. In the second he would have the aid of the police, and be applauded by good citizens. Here is a lack of moral courage in the character, blunting the sense of right and the dictates of duty. Frankness is another element of manly char- acter which is frequently absent in men who have a reputation for truthfulness. A man may tell the truth when it is required, and yet not be frank. He tells all the truth, and yet suffers falsehood to triumph without exposing it. This is sometimes through lack of moral courage, but oftener from a lack of frankness, and frequently through mental inability to distinguish between meddlesomeness and a proper care for the right, for the reputation and the good of our neighbor, both as an individual, and a member of the community. The opposite defect in character is excess of frankness without judgment, and accompanied by meddlesomeness and officiousness. Frankness and truth have to be regulated by prudence and kindness, in order to prevent their degenerating into brutality. For instance, P., a hard working German, went in the woods after some bags of leaves to use as bedding for his horses, using a light wagon for the purpose. The horse, stung by bees, ran away. Poor F. was thrown out, his skull fractured and neck broken, killing him instantly. A neighbor was sent, and told to break the news cautiously to his wife. He went accordingly, and said—" Oh ! Mrs. F., your husband has been thrown out of his wagon, and killed ". The poor woman looked at him, and murmured—" Is he much hurt ?" " Hurt ! Why, I tell you he is dead." Mrs. F. was seized with the pangs of premature labor, and in a week's time had died. The neighbor's excuse was that he only told the truth, that she would have to know anyhow. Her% perhaps, was a lack of thought only. [Honor, and that keen sense of it which avoids meanness and little things ; courage in defence of the weak against the strong ;. patience under injury, and quick vindication against insult ; self-respect, combined with a respect for others ; sustaining the right of all men to express their opinions, while firmly but mildly resisting error ; kindness of action ; courtesy of demeanor and words without degenerating into flattery or fawning ; all these may be taken up, discussed and enlarged upon as part of the elements of character. Consult the treatises of Adam Brown, Hamilton, Upham, Combe and others on Mental Philosophy.] FAME. With the mass, fame is merely local distinguished reputation. A man with them is famous, not because he is recognized by the world as possessed of certain great qualities in larger amount than other men, or as having achieved some great success, or worked some pre-eminent good, but since he has surpassed the men of the vicinage In some feat of physical strength or dexterity. When a man's name rings from one end of the country to the other, and is in the mouths of every one, this notoriety is often confounded with fame. It is difficult to define fame precisely. There is a local fame, where a man is known favorably to a municipality, a section, or a State ; and the general fame, which brings his name and deeds as objects of admiration before the greater part of the civilized world. Few attain the latter, and fewer retain it. The idol of to-day is thrown from his pedestal to-morrow, and, if he escape being split and burned, and his ashes scattered, remains where he falls, and is speedily overgrown with weeds and briars. Julius Caesar rose to the height of fame, and held his high renown for centuries. With the classicists he stands foremost among the great generals of the world, and ranks high as a scholar. The great mass of the people have a notion of him as a bald-headed gentleman who wore no wig, and whose name is given to dogs and slaves. Even Napoleon, near our own time, has lost much of the lustre that surrounded his name. He is looked at as a gentleman in an overcoat, rather fat, without heart or honor, who lost all his assumed dignity in his island jail, and quarreled with his keeper. Washington retains his position—long may he do it ! but his fame rests more upon his self abnegation than his action, and he is considered to be greater for what he refused to be, than for what he was. Fame rarely gets over local limits, unless the man be famous because he was a scourge of mankind. Few poets are knowyt beyond their own countries. Shakespeare, Byron and Burns are exceptions ;—the second because he appealed to passions and frailties ; the last because he touched with a master hand the chords of everyday emotions, and the first because he was master of every sentiment and feeling in the human heart. But there are few others in any country whose reputation has become general. Turn to the literature of Sweden. The folk-ballads of that country have been translated into English and German ; our literary students are familiar with Tegner, principally through Longfellow's rendition of parts of Frithiof's Saga but who has heard here of Ibsen, the greatest of all the Northern poets ? His name is a novelty to the average English and American reader. Nor within our own country are our literary men known to the masses. "What do you think of Longfellow ?" Inquire of a famous jockey. " Longfellow ! ", is the reply, " he was one of best and greatest horses on the turf." " Oh, I mean Longfellow, the poet ? " " Well, I don't know. I never heard of him." " Don't you know anything about the poets, then ? " "You bet I do. There's Bill Carleton, Peleg Arkwright, and the chap, I forget his name, that wrote ' Ostler Joe.' Them fellows is three lengths ahead of the others, but I don't know Longfellow and the crowd that 'aint placed." There are a few whose fame survives, and seems perennial ; but it came to them when they had no use for it. Burns died a pauper, almost in absolute want. To-day his songs are translated into every language and read in every civilized country, and his pithy quotations are used as aphorisms by statesmen and sages. The tinker Bunyan, the despised Rommany chal, inmate of prisons and persecuted of booby squires, never knew that his immortal Pilgrim would make his progress through a dozen Lands, and have his " Progress " printed by millions. Goldsmith is famous now ; he was laughed at or pitied in his day, and thought to be commonplace and vulgar by the mass. DeFoe, standing in the pillory, did not dream that his " Robinson Crusoe" was destined to coexist with the language. Much-of fame is ill-fame, and the name often lives longest which is most infamous. [Consult Roscoe's Leo X, Mommsen's and Niebuhr's Rome, Gibbon's Decline and Fall, Crowe's History of France, Lamartine's Girondists, Walpole's Historical Doubts; and Thiers's Consulate and Empire, in order to show among those who have ill-fame in history deserve, and how many do not, the obloquy under which they labor.] The man who pursues the duty of life faithfully, and does the best for his family and neighbors, is happier while he lives than the seeker for fame, and may chance to occupy as large a niche in history as nine out of ten of his neighbors who are itching to have their names enrolled favorably on the record. FIELD SPORTS. The old field-sports of which we read have been modified very much in modern times, and some of them have only a precarious existence. In the old days the fox-hunting squire rode straight to hounds, no matter how high the hedge or how deep the ditch in his way ; bore home the brush, if he got it, in triumph, and then, after the hunt, dropped on the floor amid his boon companions, with from three to four bottles of wine under his belt. Then there were gentlemen jockeys, who rode their own horses, and disdained foul play. Now, fox-hunting maintains a feeble existence in England and Ireland, and exists in a kind of mockery in parts of Virginia, and around New York City, where, two or three times a year, they chase the anise-bag or a miserable captive Reynard let loose, and where they are mostly prudent enough to ride for safety. Horse-racing still survives here and in England ; it has even got a hold by sufferance in France among a few Anglomaniacs who affect interest in " bouldogues " and an appetite for " bifstek ". But racing has ceased to be a field-sport, and has become an out-door gaming-house ; and field sports, properly so-called, have changed their character, preparatory to dying out altogether, so far as their old spirit and purpose are concerned. The old fox-hunting began in the laudable purpose of exterminating vermin ; but when the objects of the chase became scarcer, it was continued as an exciting though dangerous sport, calling for exhilarating exercise, and acting as an excuse for a carouse. But the farmer is not so fond as he was of having his grainfields trampled upon, and vermin encouraged to breed and prey upon his poultry. The race of three-bottle men in England has died out. It is no longer considered good form to get drunk in company. In this country it was always an exotic. The old Virginian, in the ante-revolutionary days, thought its existence to be necessary as an assertion of the rights of country gentlemen ; but he thinks differently now. The few hunts attempted near New York City, because they are " so English, you know ", are farces. The main object of racing should be the improvement of the swiftness and endurance of a quadruped who is man's most useful servant. Of course, amusement to the participants was, and always will be, the sustaining power, but the improvement of the breed of horses should be the underlying motive. So long as this was the case, racing had its advantages ; and though it is human nature, and especially British and American nature, to lay wagers on the result on that as in other matters of competition, betting was merely an incident. The improvement in the breed of horses became marked. The best blood of Arabia, where horse-rearing had become excellent in its methods, was imported to become the sires of racers, and crosses upon the native stock continually improved it. Horses were run in heats, and for long distances, and bottom as well as speed were looked upon as essential. But as racing became a national amusement, and gamesters became horse-owners and horse- breeders for motives of gain, heat-races were dropped in England, and short dashes substituted. Speed has increased thereby, but bottom has de- creased. The stock of roadsters and hunters has deteriorated. In this country, it is only of late years that we have followed the pernicious change with slavish imitation. We have in- creased the record for swiftness, but not that for endurance. Our horses are also set on the track too early. A large number of them are broken down before they have fairly reached maturity. It is true, that we have less need of enduring saddle-horses than in the past. The locomotiire engine, with its train of cars, has supplanted the horse for journeying. Horseback-riding, except in the unsettled parts of the country, where speed is not essential, and the journeys infrequent, is now merely for exercise or amusement. Still it is to be regretted. The great improvement in the trotting-horse in America is a great bar to the improvement of racers. Men prefer to drive, and not ride. The speed of some of these trotters is remarkable, and there is some reason to hope that the time is coming when the road-horse will cover a mile in a trot, at the same time that a racer will in a gallop. When that occurs, if ever, the race- course will have received a deadly blow, except for gaming purposes ; and as the trotting-track permits the same practices, horse-racing will only survive in a crippled condition. Whatever changes may take place in the future, field-sports, with the better purpose beneath them, have received a deadly blow. They will hence- forth be the pursuits of the black-leg and his dupe, and be mainly frequented by plungers and book-makers, with a few who take interest in the competition of noble animals in a race, without sense of the cruelty that underlies, and the dis- reputable practices that attend the sport. [The turf calendars and sporting records' will give some facts as to the genealogy of prominent horses and their achievements on the turf, that may be worked into an essay of this kind, and give it additional spice and inter- est.] THRIFT. Thrift cannot well exist without a wise econ- omy, yet the two things are different. Thrift should not be confounded with niggardliness, which pinches and saves at the sacrifice of com- fort ; for thrift is not inconsistent with judicious and even liberal personal expenditure. The word is sometimes used in the sense of frugality, panic—a general crash and a stern settling day to bring both individuals and communities down to a basis of common sense. MAN AS A FREE AGENT. Without looking at free will and predestinarianism in their religious sense, or discussing the vexed question as to whether man has the power to act for himself and is responsible for his actions, or whether his whole course has been fore-ordained from the beginning, leaving him without independent will and without responsibility, it must be admitted that human action is greatly warped if not entirely moulded by circumstances, and that man is frequently controlled by an outside force which he can neither resist nor evade. The whole experience of a man's life is, that however well his plans may have been laid, there was always some modification without his will, and that frequently the very plans themselves were begcpt by circumstances of which he knew nothing until they occurred. History is full of instances where the fortunes of dynasties, the downfall of a people, the course of empire, the result of a decisive battle, depended upon trifles which came without the agency of the leading spirits, or even in defiance of their will. One of the most remarkable of these is in the case of Oliver Cromwell. He was about to emigrate to this country along with others, when an order in council .forbade the ship's departure. He remained, and assumed the leading part affairs. Had he not remained, Charles the First might have retained his head, and Blake would certainty have not laid the foundation of the maritime supremacy of England. The English, under Lord Hay, would have completed the discomfiture of the French at Fonteroy, had not the bad faith of the English in regard to the treaty of Limerick, so intensified the valor of the Irish auxiliary, that their desperate valor retrieved the fortune of the day, and turned defeat into victory. [Cite from English history the consequences to Richard the Second of the banishment of the Earl of Derby ; the turning point at Waterloo from the singular circumstances that prevented the arrival of Grouchy ; from Romish history, how the well-planned surprise of the barbarians was prevented by the cackling of the geese ; the series of events that ended in the overthrow of Antony ; the train of circumstances leading to the assassination of Caesar, and a number of other instances.] We have several notable instances in our own history where unforseen circumstances of the most trivial kind changed the current of events at a critical juncture. The plan for Arnold's transfer of West Point, which would have been almost, if not quite, a fatal blow to the revolting colonies, was frustrated by a train of unexpected circumstances. Andre not being able to get on the Vulture, and mistaking the character of the plundering militiamen until too late ; and it was an equally clear chain of circumstances, beginning with the injustice of Congress to Arnold, that led to the defection of the latter ; and the revel at Trenton, by which Rahl was led impatiently to thrust into his pocket the written warning that would have prevented the surprise by Washington, as well as the blunders below that broke up the plan of a general capture of all the posts on the Delaware; and in our own time, the peculiar series of events that prevented Lee from securing the heights at Gettysburg which resulted in his defeat, and gave the North the decisive battle of the war. [The writer will find by diligent search in history enough instances to expand this essay to any desired length.] THE WATER SUPPLY OF TOWNS. The question of the supply of water for drinking as well as mechanical purposes is becoming, as population concentrates itself in certain centres, a problem of deep interest. Without considering the continuous growth of the cities of the West, the two leading cities of the East, New York and Philadelphia, should they increase at anything like the same ratio during the next fifty years as they have during the past half century, will exhaust all the water courses above them in order to supply their needs. New York, with her suburbs, embracing Brooklyn, Jersey City, Ho- boken, Newark, and other rising towns, bid fair by that time to be the residence of seventeen millions or more of people, and the Croton, the Passaic and the other water sheds will be unable to supply the enormous demand. The question then will be upon what reservoir can they draw. Philadelphia, even with both the Schuylkill and Delaware to draw from, will be nearly in a simi- lar position. It does not concern us, but it does our descendants, and it is only prudence and a proper foresight which leads us to discuss the question. The quantity of water per head varies It is more in a manufacturing city than in one of resi- dence mainly ; but it increases in a greater ratio as the population grows. There are many causes for this,—street sprinkling, fires, and the waste and leakage that will occur in spite of all precau- tions. The old assumption of 5o gallons per head, must at least be doubled. On these data New York and her suburbs, in 1940, will require i,7c0000,000 gallons of water daily. This is beyond the capacity of the present sources of supply. It would drain entirely all the potable water from the Hudson and its tributaries. For remember it is only potable water that can be drawn upon, and that must come from brooks and rivulets that are yet unpolluted. As the country grows, however, villages and towns grow along these streams, who must have their own drinking water, and aid by their sewer- age to pollute and so diminish New York's supply. The daily flow of seventeen hundred millions of gallons of drinkable water daily, becomes impossible. It will become necessary therefore to erect gigantic works to distill fresh from the polluted sea-water in New York Bay and beyond Hell Gate, or to get a supply elsewhere. Nature has made the great reservoirs for the cities east of Colorado. They are the lakes from Superior down. It will cost no more proportionately to tap Lake Erie, and lead its waters to New York, than to bring rock-oil by tubes from the oil-regions. The supply, added to that of the water-shed of the Hudson and its tributaries, will be sufficient for a time beyond which it is needless to extend our prevision, for all the cities in its route, and on either side, for miles. It is practically inexhaustible, so long as the country to be furnished with it does not exceed the density of population of that of China to-day. But we should not wait for the increase of population. The work should be begun now. Its cost is not beyond our means ; the works are within our ordinary engineering capacity. Let us consider the data at our command. [Consult the various reports of the Croton Aqueduct Commission, Croes and Howell's report to the Newark Aqueduct Board, 1879, and the various articles on Aqueducts to be found in the encyclopedias. The analyses of the various waters used by cities may be used, and further information as to the nature, quality and uses of water, be found in the many works upon Dietetrics, which should be consulted.] • LYING AS A FINE ART. Deception has of late years not only arisen to the height of a fine art, but has almost reached the dignity of a science. It is subdivided, on ac- count of its objects and aims, and in some of its departments has become subject to fixed rules. It governs and guides the actions of men, and is master as well as servant. Truth is said to reside at the bottom of a well, but seems to love its dwelling so much as to prefer to stay there, leav- ing the sway of the world to its audacious and unscrupulous competitor. The professors of the polite art of falsification have various departments in which each excels. They must not. be confounded with such pseudo- professors as Ferdinand Mendez Pinto, Terxiera, Baron Munchausen, and the author of that popu- lar ballad " The Derby Ram." For the stories of Pinto have been verified by later travellers, while the assertions of Tel xiera, Munchausen and the man of the Derby Ram were mere exaggerations, meant not to deceive, but amuse. The essence of a lie is deception, and truth may be changed to falsehood by a little alteration of its garments. The tales of the German -baron and his followers were meant as mere " bounces" to be laughed at, not to deceive readers, nor did they deceive any one. Who ever believed that the cherry stones shot into a deer's head grew up into fruit-bearing trees, or that the Derby Ram measured five miles from the tip of his nose to the end of his tail ? Munchausen and the rest gained their reputation by false pretences; and it is time that their false claim should be exposed. The principal departments of lying are :- I. The Historical. [Consult Macaulay's History of England for the attack on William Penn, and Dixon's work in refutation ; the ordinary history of Italy, and Roscoe's Leo X.; the story of the six burghers of Calais in Froissart, and the modern histories ; Shakespeare's Richard the Third, Hal-ford's Life of Richard the Third, and Walpole's Historical Doubts ; with Hildreth's and Bancroft's Histories of the United States, and the various numbers of the American Historical magazines. Enough examples may be found in these "to point a moral and adorn an--* essay.] 2. The Gainful. [In this department it is unneccessary to consult books. The writer can draw on his own experience among professors, from the shopkeeper who assures you that he is selling below cost, to the broker in Wall street, or the railway sharp.] 3. The Political. [The platforms and campaign documents of the political parties, and the editorials of the journals, will furnish a sufficiency of brilliant examples.] 4. The Vindictive. [Controversial pamphlets may be drawn upon for any number of instances.] 5. The Moral. [Some of the most accomplished professors in this department may be found recorded in the list of publications of the various societies for improving man's morals, and bettering his condition. At the same time, it contains some very clumsy operators, whose work fails to deceive any one short of an idiot.] 6. The Philanthropical. 7. The Religious. [The professors in these two departments frequently rise to the position of perfect artists. Their work is well-planned, and carried out to a beautiful shape. They are frequently combined in their operation with that of No. 4, and do some very pretty work for the purpose of loading the other fellows with obloquy.] • IOU	13.1161.• 8. The Motiveless. [This a small but select class, rude in their work as a general thing. Every man has met them, however, and the writer will have no trouble in citing the most prominent.] The ancients cultivated lying, and the Romans especially arrived at eminence in the art. But we fancy that they never reached the pitch of excellence attained at the present day, beyond which it is impossible to get, and which makes Satan himself pale with envy. [Mrs. Opie on Lying, will afford valuable hints in working up the subject, which might be readily expanded to an entertaining public lecture.] PUBLIC DEBT. Public debt is the result of the expenditure of money in anticipation of revenue acquired by taxation, and if prudently incurred, for proper purposes, and the money be honestly expended, with a sufficient sinking fund to ensure it payment at maturity, may be permitted. Unfortunately, such is the nature of most of those who manage public affairs, that a large part of the money obtained by borrowing is wasted and falls into the hands of rogues, the objects for which it was borrowed are not faithfully carried out, and the State or City is cheated of the improvement for which the working masses, the taxpayers of last resort, have to pay with their toil. Outside of war, which is an exceptional subject of expense, the Federal government has no debt, its ordinary income exceeding its ordinary ex- penses, after every allowance made for waste and extravagance. The several States, as they make their own laws, maintain their own jurisdiction, keep up courts to interpret and executives to en- force their laws, only get into debt when legisla- tures are reckless or imprudent. In these cases, the debts are made by the machinations of knaves, who obtain appropriations for objects which should be paid for and maintained by in- dividuals or private corporations that can conduct such business more economically than the body- politic. But in the case of the minor public corpor- ations, the cities, towns, and villages, debt may be often properly incurred, under strong restric- tions, and with proper provisions for its discharge. A growing municipality needs paving, curbing, sewering and lighting its streets ; it needs an effi- cient police to protect the persons and property of its citizens ; it needs a water-system and the proper buildings and apparatus for the transac- tion of its business, and the quenching of fires ; it requires numerous officers for carrying out all these objects. Above all, it requires a well- organized school-system. For most of these things, with prudent management, the ordinary taxes will suffice, and the motto, " Pay as you go," should be impressed upon organized political communities as well as individuals. The greater part of the cost of sewering, paving, and curbing should fall upon the property-holders directly benefitted, but part of it, with the lighting of the streets, should come out of the public treasury, since it is the whole people who enjoy the easement of the public highways, and are interested in the general health. The water used by individuals is paid for by them—it is only that used in public offices, and for the quenching of fires, that costs the city anything. What occa3ion is there then to go beyond the ordinary receipts ? Very little, but very important. The erection of water-works, the cost of a fire-apparatus and its housing, the building of school-houses and public halls, require at the beginning a larger amount of money than can be raised in one lump by the annual tax-levy. A sum in gross for such purposes may be properly enough borrowed in anticipation of revenue but never without a sinking fund, nor so large that the tax for the sinking fund shall become oppressive. Unfortunately, until of recent years, these principles have been lost sight of, and a list of the load under which our leading cities labor, shows large amounts of debt for whose ,extinction no means have been provided ; and the debts of some of these are so huge as to work forfeiture of one-third or more of the real-estate of the property-holders. In some cases the city is bankrupt, unable to pay the interest on its obligations, and nearly all have heavy taxes imposed upon the residents. The real-estate owner may get back in increased rents what he pays out, and the storekeeper in profits; but the toiler has no resource. It is very nice to have " all the modern improvements" in our municipalities, water, gas, electric lights, a well-ordered police, an effective fire-department, smooth streets, a well-devised system of sewerage, a proper health-system, well-managed schools, and well-ventilated, airy and large market-houses ; but we should not have these beyond our means. Public business is merely that part of private business which affects' the citizen in his relations to the community ; it is that part of his private affairs which has to be done under public supervision. The rules that make private business successful apply to it, and foremost among these is the one that forbids a debt to be incurred without having provided for its payment at maturity, and not to be incurred at all except for purposes of profit. [Consult the record of debts in the recent census vol. umes, and read Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations.] LIV	Oa .111 Al Al, L V AT Alt A70 AL A al HOBBIES AND THEIR RIDERS. A man with a hobby is generally considered a nuisance, and when he persists in mounting it, and causing it to prance and curvet before our eyes, we call him contemptuously—" a crank". That does not trouble him much, since the term, or something similar, has been applied to one who has brains to conceive an idea and courage to defend it, during all ages, and will be to the end of time. Often, indeed, the hobbies are lame, blind, weak-kneed, spavined and wind-galled, with very scurvy riders ; but frequently they are good steeds, in sound condition, and their riders capable of managing them. We should not despise hobbies. Almost every great discovery, every great achievement, every addition to the .comfort or luxury of man, every improvement in our social, moral or political condition, came before us at first as a hobby, and brought no end of ridicule on itself and its rider. In the early records of New England there may be found an account of a reaping-machine. It was the hobby of one of the so-called cranks of the day, and after sufficiently amusing the staid colonists, the rider was ordered out, and the hobby died and made no sign. Two centuries after, M'Cormick mounted the same hobby. He was a more skillful rider, and rode into fame and fortune. Howe was another of these cranks, and rode the sewing-machine hobby amid ridicule and jeers to a success. We all know the history of Columbus, that champion crank, who rode his hobby of the western shore of India through various courts, amid the set-backs and snubs of courtiers and scientists alike. It is true that he did not discover the coasts of farther India, and that he mounted the wrong hobby altogether ; but he discovered a new continent, and though he never knew the magnificent result of his hobby, is honored for what he never intended and never did. Fulton rode his hobby to some purpose, as our streams testify, and lived to find his hobby bestridden by many others ; although when it was ridden by Oliver Evans, Fitch and Rumsey, it was thought to be a sorry steed indeed, one of the Rosinante breed. Franklin's hobby was the sire of hobbies since curvetted on to some purpose by Morse, Edison and others. Our forefathers rode the hobby of independence and the autonomy of States, through seven long years of blood and suffering, but they got to the winning line at last. Garrison and his colleagues rode the hobby of abolition, to the disgust of the great majority, to find it reach the end of its race, because those who rode the hobby of two sets of States on this continent, became unhorsed and thrown in the ditch during the efforts. None of these hobbies were charming sights in their day. They pranced amid the jeers of beholders. Their riders were the butts of wise fools and learned numskulls. Such miserable jades had never been bestridden by man before. They were lean and weak, without a single good point. In the end they showed that though they might lack speed they had bottom. How many hobbies ridden to-day amid general laughter, may not come to the winning-post amid the cheers and waving of handkerchiefs of the mob ! Hobbies now, they may be triumphant racers to-morrow. Success is a great beautifier. Therefore despise not hobbies. Reserve your jeers till the animals be dead, and the riders overthrown ; or you may be obliged to eat humble-pie, and acknowledge the weakness of your judgment. [Beckwith's History of Inventions, and the histories of various countries, will furnish an abundance of illustra'Cons.] SOCIETY. When a man by patient industry, rigid economy and matchless thrift, has accumulated a fortune, built or bought him a palace in one of the avenues, or a fashionable cross-street, and settled down to enjoy the result of his toil and prudence, his wife and daughters insist that he shall wash his horny hands, encase his substantial feet in patent leather, don a claw-hammer coat and a white neck-tie, and knock at the front door of society. This " Society", according to them, is the House called Beautiful which crowns the summit of the Hill of Difficulty, and in it are untold delights. To avoid their importunities, he makes the effort, and, by means of an ample chequebook, succeeds. If, when he entered, he found the inmates were of his own kind, or even those to whose culture and character he could bow, he might be content, and go through the long corridors, and in and out the lofty halls, feeling as stiff and uncomfortable as a hog in armor. But when he has effected his entrance he finds few of his kind there, and none whom he can reverence, but rather those who acquired their wealth—their only recommendation—by methods less honest than his own. There he finds the wealthy contractor who has accumulated riches by cheating the State ; the smug alderman who has obtained masses of boodle in return for surrendering the rights of the municipality ; the financier who, beginning as a curbstone broker, has by a series of successful robberies become a millionaire, and others whose income is derived from capital gained by pandering to vice and partaking in villainy.- Besides his uncongenial associates, he is met with another misery. He finds that he is merely in the ante-chamber of society, which lies just beyond, with the door locked. If he once entered he would find the same difficulty—another locked and barred door, beyond which is another, and beyond that another, until finally there is a secret and inner chamber to which only a select few—the cream of the cream are admitted. Now what is this society, into which so many desire to find entrance ? If it were an aggregation of the cultured and refined, knit together by the bond of a common sympathy, and engaged in that pleasant social intercourse which relieves life of much of its weariness, it were de, sirable to form a part of it. But the pursuits and pleasures of the so-called society, of whatever grade, are frivolous and frequently puerile. In the rude country athletic sports there is at least excitement for the mind, and development of muscle. Even base-ball is cheering, and a foot-race, or a boat-race, excites pleasure in the contestants, and interest in the spectators. But what is there to cheer or to ennoble, to cultivate the mind, or enlarge the thews and sinews, in croquet or lawn-tennis ? What are the mystic pleasures of the German, or the delights of the kettledrum I What are the fascinations of the evening party ? They are all marked by degrees of weariness, and boredom. When Solomon said " Vanity of vanities all is vanity", he must have written after a fashionable rout in the city of Jerusalem, as they were gathering up fragments of crockery and glassware, and some of his many wives were lamenting over lemon-stains in the Persian carpets, preparatory to putting out the lights and going to bed. Where a few congenial people meet at times at the house of one of them in the evening, and discuss matters of interest ; when men and women of brains and manners group together to further some public good, or some scheme of private benevolence ; when those of like pursuits and like sympathies herd together because there is a special affinity between them, there you have the only society that is worth living for. All the rest is " leather and prunella." JUST BALANCE OF THE UNION, In all countries under a representative form of government, whether a republic or a constitutional monarchy, there are necessarily two political parties, differing as to the proper policy to be pursued in the conduct of public affairs. There may be a half-dozen parties, but the greater portion, of these, arising upon immediate questions, are necessarily ephemeral ; and the main parties are reduced to two, whose difference is radical. One party is a supporter of the the government, and desires to strengthen it and concentrate power at the centre, looking upon the popular judgment as fickle if not untrained ; the other is jealous of the government, and would give it as little power as possible, reserving to the people the utmost freedom of action consist- ent with good order. One party, if unchecked, would lead to despot- ism ; and the other, to anarchy. Good men be- long to both, and believe in both, and are equally well-meaning. This same difference of opinion arose in the convention that framed the Federal Constitution, and each side fought there for supremacy. The result was a compromise, by which the extremes of the two factions were avoided ; and that result is embodied in the Constitution under which the United States exist, both as united, and as separate States. But though the written constitution lays down in the plainest terms the relative powers of the States and the Federal government—of the indi- vidual States and United States, and the right of the people under both governments, the same contest of the two great parties, continues, and the same attempts to approach centralism on one side, and localism on the other. Happily be- tween both stands the tribunal created to hold the just balance of the Union, by authoritative inter- pretation of disputed passages of the Constitution, and interposing against the tendency of either party which happens to be in power, the barrier of the fundamental law. The remarkable aptitude of our people for self-government, and the power of the written law over the passions of men, is shown in the history of the Supreme Court. The offices of chief and associate justices have been filled by lawyers from both political parties, most of whom had been not only partisan in politics, but at times bitterly so. Yet their decisions have been safe, conservative, practically unanimous, and generally acquiesced in. And a still more remarkable fact is of comparatively recent occurrence. During the sectional war, and for many years-after, one party, the Republican, was in power. The tendency of that party was toward centralism, as its opponent's leaning is the other way. It appointed judges of its own political faith. Yet when a question arose under the constitution involving the reserved rights of the States, these very judges decided it adversely to the general views of the party from which they sprang, and whose views they had as citizens maintained. Outside, they were partisans, with desire for party success; but in the court, they were judges, and gave a just interpretation of the fundamental law as they found it. That, had the question been one involving the rights of the Federal government, and the judges been of the opposite party, the decis- 178	SKELETON ESSAYS. ions would have been equally impartial and just, no one but the prejudiced will deny. Such things show where the true balance of the Union lies, and how it will be preserved, at least so long as we have a judicial tribunal made up of learned and conscientious judges, and a people educated to respect and obey its decisions. It is this education to obedience that secures freedom to a people jealous of their rights, and order in public affairs with those accustomed to the utmost license of expression. They have been trained to it for over two centuries under the local governments which the necessity of the case caused the colonies to create. Hence the same tractability was transferred to the judicial portion of the general government, and an acquiescence which they yield grudgingly to the executive and legislative branches. Abroad, where they establish a republic, it is something in the form but without the spirit of republicanism. The people have not been educated to it, there is no tribunal to whose decision the people readily bow there is no balance, and the form of government is liable to be changed at any moment by popular commotion. [Examination of the prominent political decisions of the U. S. Supreme Court from the very beginning, will show a number of cases wherein the non-partisan character of the court was maintained, and the politician cora- roptph, awrilr ;T, +1-t^	1 Jill dial ..11N	41, N. JOURNALISM, IDEAL AND REAL, A free press is an admirable institution, and a tecessity to the maintenance of freedom in a repesentative State. To make it strong it should -e free to make fair comment on public events. 3ut freedom may degenerate into license, and the lirness born of right and justice may be replaced y the foulness springing from base motives. deally,the journalism of this country is excellent; eally, it is not. Like any other thing established ^urely for purposes of gain, it pursues the obxt of its institution without regard to the cleaness or dirtiness of the road by which it ravels. While there may be exceptional jourals, the general tone and methods of journalism this country are not creditable, and, at times, carcely decent. We do not speak of the little rural sheets which mintain a precarious existence by doing the irty work of each political party, and by panderig to certain petty interests, but of those daily )urnals, of large circulation, published in the reat cities, furnished with the ablest writers, ianaged by men of ability, and bringing to their roprietors most princely revenues. They are at mes unjust in their comments on public affairs, busive to private individuals, slavish to public rejudice, tyrannical in action, dogmatic in asseron, intolerant of dissent, and cruel to the weak. IOU	13 lid .1.4.61" VIV .600A.	. They are rarely corrupt, since they are rich enough to spurn bribes ; but they continually mistake abuse for argument and scurrility for wit As a general thing the larger journals aim al accuracy in their statements of current events, and spare no expense to obtain correct news. But here and there in our larger cities hav( sprung up journals who have attained great circulations, and who do not hesitate, not merely tc color news, in order to make it attractive, but even to invent it. Every now and then their columns will contain a long and blood-curdling ac. count of crime or accident, given with grea circumstantiality of detail, with an editorial corn ment boasting of the superior enterprise whicl has given to them what no other journals coulc obtain. Nor can any other journals vie witl them in the matter, since the whole story, place persons and circumstances, were evolved fron the fertile imagination of some mendacious mem ber of the staff, or purchased from some " space writer" whose inventive faculties have earner him bread and beer for a week. The political journals of the country seem t be no worse than those who call themselves in dependent, and whose independence is servilit to one or other of the two parties under a mast The political journals are the least mischievous ( the two, since we expect them to have no scrt pies when the interest of their own party is ire ••^ volved, and we take their assertions, especially if we be of the opposite party, with a grain of salt. Of course, there are many notable exceptions in the shape of journals that aim to be truthful ind just, and fail only through the weakness of human nature. Some of these are managed with &Way and decency, as well as with some regard to the rights of others ; but, as the stream is no purer than its source, these rarely are as pecuniarily successful as the less scrupulous sheets which pander to depraved popular taste, and receive a large share of public patronage. It must not be inferred, however, that journalism has deteriorated in this country. On the contrary, it has improved in every respect. A comparison with the newspapers of fifty to seventy-five years since—even with those of thirty years ago, show that the methods, the tone, the manliness of journalism now are far beyond what they were, and that, if journalism be not what it should be, it has made large approaches to perfection. Its aims are larger, its conduct more vigorous, and it embraces in its service more skilled servants, and more men of trained brains than it did in the palmiest days of the past. • I • • WHEN REBELLION IS JUSTIFIED, For a number of people, or even the population of a country in mass, to enter the field against their rulers, is to inaugurate the miseries of war, and of that most bloody and unscrupulous of all contests, a civil war. Rebellion is a crime, and never has succeeded and never will, from the fact that when it succeeds, it is no longer rebellion, but revolution. A revolution even is rarely peaceful. To properly rebel—to open a contest in which brother is arrayed against brother and father against son, requires certain .conditions to justify or even excuse it. These are the unbearable wrongs of the governed ; the absence of any other effective remedy for these wrongs, the goodwill of the greater number of the oppressed, and a fair prospect of success. 1. The wrongs should be unbearable. In the case of the Thirteen colonies, although the imposition of a trifling tax might have been borne without inconvenience, merely considered of itself, yet it was only part of a number of measures all tending to one object, namely, the taxation of a free people without their consent, by a body in which they were not represented, thus reducing them from the position of an integral portion of a constitutional monarchy, to that of a mere appanage of the crown. Such a condition was unbearable, and when the design became evident, it was only proper judgment that caused it to be resisted, while resistance was possible. In the case of France, the revolt was the result of long years of oppres,sion on the part of king and nobles, until the lower classes had been brutalized, and been reduced to the last condition of sufferance. The American and the first French revolution were justified by the wrongs which provoked them. 2. The absence of any other effective remedy for these wrongs. The colonies, through their own chosen representatives, had humbly petitioned for the redress of wrongs. They had asserted their loyalty to the throne, and their desire to remain the fellow-subjects of their British brethren. They had respectfully though firmly remonstrated with their oppressors, and endeavored ill every manly way to check their course of wrong. Failing all this, being spurned with insult, and having their soil invaded by hostile armies, the colonies armed for their defense, and driven to bay, declared themselves to be independent States, whose political connection with Great Britian had been dissolved by the acts of the latter, and so began a rebellion which ended in revolution. The French masses in the same way knew of 110 other remedy than a violent change ; but unlike the Americans. they had not been trained to local self-government. With them, power had always been held at the seat of government ; they had not the wit to decentralize it. The results of the two cases differed naturally. With the colonies, there followed a stable government built on existing forms ; with France, anarchy, oligarchy, despotism, and from thence continual changes in form, all despotic, no matter what their kind. The fault was not in the remedy, which was the only one left ; but that the after-treatment did not fit the habits of the people, which are not suited to the simplicity of a republic. 3. The good will of the greater number of the oppressed. In the Revolution the greater part of the people sympathised with the movement for independence ; but there were a large number of loyalists, who were devoted to the crown, and detested rebellion as a crime, and rebels as criminals. The majority, however, were in sympathy, and though the wave rose and fell, the tide was in favor of change. It was a persistent and settled purpose also. • In France, the majority may have desired a change, but did not show it. While the mob reigned in Paris the great masses outside of Parts were passive. Centralism, however, had made e' Paris to be France, and the majority in the city made the revolution. 4. There must Oe a fair prospect of success. Though all the other requisites be there—unbearable wrongs, absence of other effective methods, and a general popular support—yet if there be no reasonable prospect of success, rebellion is not justifiable. Where the ruling power is strong, compact and well-organized, and has powerful fleets and armies at command, to rebel is not only to put the rebels themselves in peril, but to endanger the lives of women and children, and helpless non-combatants, whom neither side, in the fury of war, will respect. A rebellion almost or quite certain to end as well as continue in blood, no matter what the wrong may be, is intensely criminal. And yet a revolt, .though its suppression rivets the chains more firmly on the revolters for the time, frequently gains its end in the future by calling attention to the wrongs complained of. To.the rebellion in Canada may be traced in great measure the policy by which the government of Great Britian accorded a slighty restricted autonomy to her colonies, and probably will, in the not very remote future, accord the same to Ireland. This is merely an incident, not justification. And the so-called rebellion in Canada was, after all, a comparatively harmless affair. It had no strong popular support, and was scarcely more than a political riot, which called the attention of the home government to the danger of ruling colonies entirely from the centre, and made them wisely accord that local self-government to the colonies which they as unwisely deny to a part of their empire nearer home. [The rising of the gladiators under Spartacus; that of the Swiss under the mythical Tell, and the Polish insurrections may be used to show where Asing against wrongs was justifiable or unjustifiable.] THE RIGHT OF EMINENT DOMAIN. The right of eminent domain,—that is, the paramount ownership of all the land in an organized political community, is the highest attribute of sovereignty. In England it is vested in the sovereign, who is an individual. In this country, where the sovereignty is theoretically the people, eminent domain is vested in the State, which is the aggregation of the people for the purpose of political control. It does not lie with the Federal government which is a mere union of the States, and which is limited in that matter by the constitution under which it exists, but is reserved to each State. Most, if not all of the States, have limited their power in this respect, or rather restricted it ; but where they have made no such limit in their fundamental law, or chosen to remove the limit, they have the proprietorship of every foot of ground within their several boundaries at their mercy. This right of eminent domain, though often held in abeyance, is nevertheless distinctly asserted in several ways. A man can only acquire the ownership, which is in this case the mere use and enjoyment of real estate, in such manner and under such conditions as the State by law pro- vides. He can hold it only under legal restric- tions. He can alienate it by sale or gift only in the mode set down by law. He can devise it by his will and testament only under the same di- rection. Should he die without a testament, the law declares which of his kinsfolk shall possess it, and if he leave no kindred, the State resumes possession, and becomes again the absolute owner. It will be thus seen that the tenure of land in this country is• that of a fee, and not absolute. The uses and control of all real property are regu- lated by the judgment of the State, and are subject to the supreme law of the public good. A man can not do as he pleases with his own, simply because it is not his own. At every step he is hedged in by provisions of law. He is merely a tenant of the State. He may feel all the pride of ownership, but his ownership is subordinate to the right of eminent domain. So far indeed does this sovereignty extend that the federal government, whose powers, where they are so set down, are absolute, can not enter upon any part of the territory of a State, except under the express consent of the latter, and under such forms and methods as the State may decree. [For treating this subject more fully, the writer may consult the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case reported in 7 Peters, 243, and also 6 How, 507. See also is How, 426, and 3 Zabriskie, 624. ASSOCIATION AS A MEANS OF PROGRESS. The old proverb " In Union there is strength" —the " L'Union fait la Force " of the Belgians,—is as applicable to persons as to communities. No one doubts the increased strength of the States of America, or the States of Germany, because of their union. What individuals fail to do singly, is readily effected by an aggregation of individuals in a corporate form. Hence the weak naturally associate in order to cope with the strong, and hence, carrying the idea to the point of absurdity, a large school of political economists look to association as a general panacea for the evils of society, and look upon single action as an insufficient factor in the problem of human progress. In fact, the whole world is tending that way, and syndicates of capitalists are formed for the purpose of purchasing and managing almost everything by joint-stock companies. Yet it is only a comparatively few years since the attempts of Fourier and others to combine producers into joint-stock companies from which each stockholder drew according to his earnings, for this is what Fourierism, stripped of its verbiage, really meant, excited general derision. We heard a deal then about the independence of the individual, and lively protests against sinking the man in the little community. The world is drifting to the opposite extreme, through sheer necessity. For there are now so many millionaires that those of moderate incomes are forced to combine in order to hold their own in the race of competition. The craze is deepened by avarice. " Much desires more," and will obtain it. The example of the money-makers is not lost upon the masses who never could obtain much money, and never will. The trades-unions, the labor-societies, and kindred organizations of workmen, are the efforts to use association as a means to gain their ends, to preserve .their rights, and better their condition. They are directly opposed to the larger capitalists, and in a country where the ballot is in popular hands, the strife should not be so unequal. Yet that very universal distribution of the ballot is a means to defeat the combination of the poor. So soon as a political party leans toward the workingmen, the opposite party, under the lead of, and aided by the money of combined capital, proceeds to either buy up enough individual voters for their purposes, or to seduce the "l"Vlr li,YCI AI Ch lasses into a third party, which draws from the arty of their friends, and assures the moneyings a triumph. The trades-unions and labor rganizations are thus weakened or disintegrated, nd the object of the workingmen's association is )iled. It takes time and dearly bought experience to each fools a lesson, but they are taught in the nd. It is a dull ass indeed that will not mend is paces by beating, and in process of time ^oorer men will discover the strength of united fort, and bend their energies toward perfecting nd strengthening the association which is eeded for their protection and progress. As here are hundreds of poor to every one who is in loderate circumstances, and thousands to every ine who is rich, the advantages of association till finally fix themselves on the public mind, nd the schemes of knaves will no longer baffle nited effort. There may be no millenium even hen, but a decidedly better state of affairs. WHY STRIKES FAIL. The records show that a large proportion of he strikes of the workmen and laborers in the ountry utterly fail to achieve their object. What worse, however, is the loss to both parties. ,ess sympathy is felt for the losses of employers than employed, since the action of the latter is mostly prompted by real grievances, and not through caprice. But, outside of the equity involved, the naked fact remains, that far the greater number of the strikes are dismal failures ; and, when we consider the loss of earnings to the men and their families, and the consequent misery, the whole thing is lamentable. Why do they mostly fail ? There are various causes that conspire to render the stand-out of the men useless. The first, of course, is the fact that the employers can, as a general thing, sustain loss better than the men. In some trades, where a heavy plant is required, and where there happens to be a steady demand for the products, capital suffers extremely. There a strike is soon ended by surrender or compromise. But in most of them, the loss is not more than the capital can bear. Here, the possession of money gives the employer an advantage. The suffering of the strikers begins as soon as their own reserved fund and the contributions of their fellows are exhausted. Before the pangs of hunger, especially of those dependent on the bread-winners, enthusiasm dies out, courage is dampened, and the combination of laborers gradually melts away. Another cause is the fact that, owing to the subdivision of the trades through machinery and improved processes, there are few in which skilled workmen are a necessity. Where all or even the greater portion of the workmen employed, are required to be skilled in that particular handicraft, their strike stops work entirely. They can not be replaced, for skilled workmen are not made in a week, and production ceases until they return to labor. But when a man tends a machine which turns out one part, and another man another machine turning out another part, and so on all through, the workmen need be no more skilled than the machine, and any defection is easily filled from the crowds that are seeking for something ,to do. And in that great mass of the unemployed, both skilled and unskilled, lies the crowning cause of the frequent failures of strikes. There is more supply of, than demand for labor, and this surplus of laborers is continually augmented by fresh importations from Europe. Some of this comes because the workman abroad hears of the high wages paid here, but not of the high cost of living, and he rushes to the country as El Dorado. Employers, both individual and corporate, in defiance of law, import men under contract to work at wages less than those current here. It is true that a number of those thus brought here under false pretenses, finding themselves to be dupes, join strikes in the end, and stand by their order, but many do not, being mostly ignorant of the language spoken, and frequently debased. Any defection is more than made up by newer impor- tations, and the excess of supply over demand in the labor-market swells yearly. It will be seen why strikes fail, and why they must continue to fail, so long as our present reve- nue system keeps the raw material of our manu- factures dear, confining our products to a limited home market, and furnishing employment for only a portion of those who seek for it. [See statistics in Bradstreet's, and search the annual reports of the various State Labor-Bureaus for further data.] TRUSTS, POOLS AND SYNDICATES. We hear much through the public journals, and from the tongues of orators upon the rostrum, of pools, trusts, syndicates, and other combinations by which the necessities or luxuries of life are in- creased in price to the consumer to the profit of the conspirators. These combinations are not, as is supposed, an American invention. They were brought here from the other side of the At- lantic. Nor did they originate there. They were one of the first villainies of organized com- munities. Though not specially mentioned in Holy writ, there can scarcely be a doubt that they existed in the antediluvial world, and had the records been preserved, we should be able to read of a brick-trust and a pool in slime about the time when they were building the Tower of Babel. There is something more to tell in connection with this matter. By the English common law, which is the law in every state in this Union, where not repealed or modified by statute, the offence of buying up or forestalling the market of provisions or other necessaries of life, and holding them for a rise,—which is done under these trusts and pools, whether by syndicates or individuals, and under the name of forestalling, engrossing or regrating, is a misdemeanor, sub- ject to indictment, and punishable by fine and imprisonment. The law has fallen into disuse; the knaves drive a coach and four through it ; but it is there, and could be enforced. So far our trust-barons have made no attempt to repeal it, though they generally own the legislatures, with the governors thrown in. But the trust-barons of England are bolder than ours. By the act of 7 & 8 Victoria, C. 24, the 'offences of forestalling, engrossing and regrating have been abolished in England, and trusts and pools legalized, to the great satisfaction of all scamps in that way offending. It will be thus seen that our British cousins have gone farther in that march of im- provement vulgarly known as " The Rogue's March"--a movement, not sideways like that of the crab, but backwards. A recent instance of this aefarious conspirac-y is to be seen in the advance of the price of sugar, four cents per pound, by a combination—a splen- did gain by the trust, and a heavy tax upon every, head of a family in the country. Nor does the sugar-trust stand alone. It has plenty of vicious company. The coal-trust, the oil-trust, the flour- trust, the lumber-trust, the salt-trust—but there is no end to them. Even water has been in some places made the subject of a trust, and monopolized by a syndicate. The air we breathe has not yet been engrossed, but its time is to come. These men must have seen that they are play- ing with fire which may some time consume them. But, emboldened by their success, they look but to the gains of to-day, and have no heed for the peril of to-morrow. " After me, the deluge," seems to be their motto. So long as the dumb asses bear the burthens, with no more complaint than an occasional bray, why should they slacken in their greed of gain ? What does it matter that the poor have new difficulties placed in their path of life every day ? The conspirators do not feel these. They eat, drink and are, merry ; they wear fine broadcloth, and sit in the sanct- uary with pious faces. What law can be passed to curb those who fill legislative bodies with their creatures, and the courts with their tools ? Can it last ? They seem to think so. So thought the ancienne noblesse of France, but when wrong rose to its height, the Sans-culottes rose also, and then —the noyades and the guillotine. •	[Search the histories of France, Germany and Holland, for the bread-riots, and other revolts against the trusts of old.] STATE HELP OR SELF HELP, Whether it be because of the constant infusion of a foreign element differently trained from our own, or because the character of our countrymen is changing, and we are losing the spirit of self- reliance once so characteristic of our people, the naked truth remains that thousands of individuals are calling every now and then, as the wagoner did to Herakles, to help them where they should help themselves. Projects are put forward for the government to do all kinds of things that should be the subject of private enterprise ; and if it be not stopped, we shall have some lazy fellows calling on the municipality to put every man's coal in his cellar, and on the State to estab- lish a department to hitch every man's suspenders on the'back buttons of his waistband. These people have quite forgotten, if they ever learned, the nature of our government, and the theory on which its constitution is based. In a despotism, as in the family, the head of the State is absolute, and the proprietor of everything. From him, as from a centre, radiate blessings; and any good which his subjects desire must come as his gift. In such a government, the people may properly look for help from the State. But the form and substance of our political organization are different. Here the head of the State is the head servant of the people. All officers of State are popular servants. But the nature of their services is defined. The government exists for the transaction of such public business as may be requirdd, and nothing more ; and that business is only such as is incident to the affairs of the mass as a community, and not as individuals. The whole object is to govern as little as possible, and to leave individuals with as little trammels on their action as the nature of the case will admit. It is not the business of the State to help the citizen, but to remove all obstacles that may be in the way of his helping himself. He is not the ward of the sovereign, but an integral part of the sovereignty. He is independent and not dependent ; and arty attempt on the part of the State to do that for him which he is capable of doing for himself is an impertinent interference with his rights, which he should reject, and not crave. Besides, it has been abundantly shown by experience, that for the State to engage in any business beyond the making, expounding and enforcing its laws—certainly any business that r asa 4Ma as a V/ al as AI 861 as a IVO can be carried on by individuals,—is injurious to the community in several ways. It is costly; for State work, even that which i3 needed, is never carried on so economically as when it is done by individuals for their own profit. It is corrupting ; for it leads to attempts of office-holders to prostitute their position to private gain, and affords them opportunities for pecula- tion and fraud. It is dangerous ; for it creates a larger number of office-holders, who are sure to sustain the gov- ernment in any usurpation, and who are apt to regard their places less as trusts than as means for a livelihood, and frequently as conveniences for plunder. It deadens the manhood of the people, and would utterly destroy the keenness, self-reliance and manly independence which has hitherto marked our citizens. Beyond doubt, the conduct of many things, such as our railways, expresses and telegraphs, by greedy corporations, has been marked by carelessness, insolence and even rapacity. The remedy is not to transfer the business to the care of the State, whose officials would have less fear of the consequences of neglect and insolence than the servants of a corporation. The true treat- ment of the evils under which we labor, is to curb the corporations to restrain them within just bounds ; to subject them to the inexorable rules of law ; and to undertake nothing by the State which private persons can do. Any business controlled by the government naturally becomes a monopoly ; the prices are fixed by those in power, and those forced to become patrons, are deprived of the benefits of competition. [Consult any of the large English and Continental histories for the combinations of merchants and others during the middle ages, the journals of the period ; such works as " Old London Merchants", and other sources, for further points.] BI-METALISM. IN FAVOR OF. From the very earliest period that man engaged in traffic, the precious metals have been used as representatives of value, and though copper, pure or alloyed, was coined, it was merely to facilitate minor transactions, and under a fixed and not intrinsic worth. Gold and silver became the standard, and however plentiful the one might grow to be over the other, their relative values were kept but little impaired. The Bible shows their use among the Hebrews. They were used by the Greeks and Romans, even so far back as the Egyptians. The Chinese used them from a time lost in the shadows of the past, and use them both to-day. There is no civilized country to-day without its coinage, and in all these, gold and silver are alike necessary. Even where we have paper money, it is not used as the representative of value, but of coin. The point is that both metals are required, and that both vary not long in their relative value. When gold was found in larger quantities than usual in California, and afterward in Australia, there was talk of its purchasing power depreciating. But it resumed its old position speedily. The great increase in the production of silver has for a time lowered its comparative value ; but that very cheapness has caused its more general use in the arts and as a thing of luxury, and it will gradually return to its old position. To demonetise it, as has been madly proposed, would only lead to its necessary remonetisation in the future. To confine the coinage of silver to the amount necessary for home use, in ordinary transactions, and reduce silver from the position of a standard to that of a mere convenience, would mainly confine its employment to artistic and mechanical purposes, and degrade it to the condition of the baser metals. It is true, that it would be then used instead of copper and bronze, at least until human invention had perfected a cheaper process for the production of aluminium, when the latter would in great measure take its place. But this is impracticable, because the barbarous and partially-civilized peoples with whom the greater part of our trade will be for centuries, are accus- tomed to silver, and will have it, in conjunction with gold, in preference to any other metal in exchange for their commodities. The objection to silver on account of its inferior portability is fanciful. A note for fifty cents is more easily carried than a half-dollar, and so it is sooner worn out, and more liable to be lost. A silver coin will lose some of its weight by abrasion, but the greater part of the metal is not lost. The note, on the contrary, is often so worn as to be worthless, since its value is not intrinsic, but representative. The loss by the destruction or loss of paper money is large yearly, and a great profit to the government, or to the banks of issue. But it is a severe tax on the people, and generally upon those least able to bear it. It is only in large transactions that the bulk of silver becomes inconvenient, and in these not only gold and notes, but cheques, drafts and certificates of de- posit replace it. To coin vast amounts more than can be used is an error, but that is a mere matter of policy capable of judicious regulation, and affords no valid argument in favor of a sin- gle standard. BI-METALISM. AGAINST. As in traveling, in domestic management, and in public affairs, so in coinage—" When two ride on one horse, one must ride behind". A double standard of value is an absurdity of itself. There must be one and one only, and when it comes to a question of the kind, mono-metalism must necessarily triumph. And when you make a standard, it must be the more valuable metal, which gold is, both intrinsically and because of the smaller amount in existence. It is proper to coin silver, copper or bronze, and all of them, because each of these metals, as coins, plays its own part. The number of silver coins demanded for ordinary transactions is less then those of bronze. The coinage of gold is less for circulation than as a basis and security for the banknotes or treasury-notes which can most conveniently pass from hand to hand. Silver can not wisely be used as a basis, since its value flucjuates. The note representing a silver dollar today, may represent only 75 per cent. of the value in gold to-morrow. The note representing one dollar in gold, remains at all times the same. It may be easily redeemed at its face value, while the silver dollar will only bring what may be the market value of the silver, which fluctuates greatly, at the time of redemption. It may be necessary for civilized States to coin large amounts of silver for transactions with countries where gold is not used. Certainly, they will not be slow in pursuing a course to their own advantage. It is buying their metal cheap, and selling their coin dear. But though, after the habit of human nature, they take advantage of the folly of the foreign seller, it does not follow that they should also plunder their people. A large coinage of silver, if commercial need require it, does not imply that the baser metal should be raised to the dignity of a standard, and the purer and nobler relegated to a subsidiary place. That were simply folly, as well as rank injustice. [Upon the foregoing points, the argument in favor of mono-inetalism is mainly based. The various works on both sides, it is not necessary to cite. Numbers of them may be found in the booksellers' catalogues. PROTECTIVE DUTIES. A father would not permit a stranger to enter his household, and sell to his family at a cheaper rate, something made by his sons. While he would not forbid the stranger from his gate, he would endeavor to prevent him taking away the livelihood of one so near to him. A State has still more reason for its action in the same line, and, being established for the benefit of all, is bound to protect each individual as far as possible, and with the least injury to the rest. A country that suffers its artisans to be crushed out by foreign competition, unless they will submit to those slender rewards for their toil that enables their employers to compete with the foreigner, may obtain allegiance, but it will not command love and respect. No " protectionist", as he is termed, desires to prevent trade by making the duties on foreign products actually prohibitive. What he asks for is that the advantage which the foreigner possesses in low wages and cheap material, shall be counterbalanced by a tax on his goods, which shall go into the public treasury as part of the revenue of the country, and save the imposition of a direct tax. But the duties should not be laid with the object of revenue but protection, for if laid for the former purpose, they would be likely to encourage importations, and be the reverse of protective. The duty should diminish, and not prevent importations, otherwise the price would ISe unnecessarily high in the home market. Experience has shown that this protection is apt, in the end, to cheapen articles to the consumer. And this if effects in two ways. The perfection of methods which grows up in a prosperous industry lessens the cost of production ; and competition lowers prices directly and indirectly directly, because there is soon more or less over- Mgr .11ININD MIEW :NNE ••••1,	"ow ••• •	••••• Pa/ 11.1, ^•01•1. ••^ 11%.,	1^1 MINN. production, and if not that, then indirectly, through the fear of undue competition, if high prices tempt capital. [A list of prices of articles in common use, a hundred years since, fifty years since, and to-day, may be had from the various Federal and State reports, and used to sustain the foregoing position. ] It may be said that much of the lowering of prices is due to the invention of labor-saving machinery. That is very true, but that very inven- tion is the result of protection.	If high duties had not made protection profitable, we should have had but little use for labor-saving machinery, our wages being so low as not to require it. In fact, in many things, our workshops would have been abroad. As to the evils of over-production, they in a great measure cure themselves. The balance of demand and supply maintains itself in the end. If too many enter into any line of production, some must fail, and show " the survival of the fittest". Such overcrowding where a supposed profit is to be found, is not the result of protective duties, but of the avarice of man, and is no ground of objection to a system which sustains fair production, maintains a just compenstion for toil, and conduces to the public good. [For further points necessary to elaborate this essay, consult Henry C. Carey's works on Protection, which contain the best arguments for protection.] MVO	f:1 AL .10 id AM i %ALT ill 1.1 SJiii 17 • REVENUE DUTIES. The Federal government established by the constitution of the United States, is one of limited powers. It is meant to promote the public welfare, and not to aggrandise a class, grant subsidies to favored industries, or increase the profit of individuals. The question is not so much as to whether it is good policy to legislate in the interest of certain members of the community at the expense of the rest, but whether, in the first place, such a course of action is just, and in the second plade, whether it is within the spirit of the Federal powers. The right of the government to levy taxes for the purpose of defraying all expenses, ordinary and extraordinary, that are needed for administering affairs, and carrying out its proper powers, is undoubted. It may do this by direct taxation, by an excise on luxuries, or by duties upon imports. It has been the practice to rely mainly upon duties on imports, arranged in a tariff, or scale, because the people have as much direct taxes to pay as they will bear under their State and municipal governments, and because it was only the needs of a war that made them submit to an excise, which from its domiciliary visits they abhor. In laying such duties the object is revenue, and to this it should be confined. To lay them in such a way as to afford bounties to any special class, is outside of the object of its imposition, and foreign to the character meant to be impressed upon our government by its founders. On the other hand, these duties should not be graded so as to produce a larger amount of revenue than is required for an economical administration of affairs. A surplus revenue is an abstraction of money from the pockets of the people, uncalled for and unjust, a plunder mine for knaves, and a fruitful source of corruption and malfeasance in office. Nor, while it should not be so graded as to specially benefit any class, should it be arranged so as to particularly injure any one. Its imposition is a matter for careful deliberation, and should be entered upon and effected in a spirit of fairness. A tariff of duties is a form by which taxation may be effected, and taxation, which is a burthen when necessary to be cheerfully borne by the community, becomes oppressive when wantonly made, or even made without careful and conscientious consideration. Of course, in framing a tariff of duties, these principles will be lost sight of in a Congress composed of representatives of different interests, and containing not a few of the paid attorneys of powerful manufacturing corporations. Each is desirous of benefiting his section, or his client, and, as in the case of appropriation bills, a number of compromises are introduced under what is vulgarly called " log-rolling ". A desires a special tax, and to obtain it to suit his interest, he agrees with B, C, D, and others, each with special taxes in view, to support theirs, if they will support his. This is conspiracy, and a knavish one at that ; but it prevails. There never yet has been a tariff framed, no matter how just it was at first, that has not been altered in committee, or in the main body, to suit overwhelming interests ; and there never yet has been a tariff act passed that has not been formed in defiance of correct principles. Possibly, such is the weakness, if not the villainy of human nature, there never will be ; but it is at least worth while to endeavor to obtain something near a just measure, and to aid this, to persistently iterate the principles upon which a proper act should be constructed. The legislature of a free government is necessarily imperfect because of its freedom, and nothing more can be done with it than to approximate it to right. [Read Secretary Walker's Report (1845-6) for further views on this theme.] FREE TRADE. When the people of two independent political communities hold intercourse between each other, the natural tendency is to an exchange of the commodities produced, naturally or artificially, within each other's bounds. And, as a general rule, one will grow, or dig from the earth, something which the other does not possess, or does not grow, or mine, to an equal amount ; or one manufactures something which the other does not, or vice versa. And this may arise from a difference of climate, or soil, or geological formation, in the case of natural productions ; or because of a superior or different degree of skill, in artificial products. The exchange in such a case is to the advantage of both, and to how much advantage, depends upon the aptness for traffic of the respective parties. It would seem then that wisdom would teach that every people should take advantage of its own capability, and make the most of it. The natural folly of man leads him to undervalue that which he possesses, and to overvalue the possession of his neighbor ; and a spirit of rivalry induces him to surpass the other in spite of natural disadvantage. So far as Nature is concerned, she soon teaches him to cease attempts to force her, and he would be a dull fool indeed who would strive to grow coffee in a temperate, or wheat in a tropical climate. But when it comes to the productions of ingenuity, man endeavors to produce all in one country that is produced in another by manufacturing skill. Finding himself baffled because his rival has a cheaper raw 210	SKELETON ESSAYS. material, or can make at less cost, he takes up the notion to force his own countryman to buy the product made at home, by fixing an import tax upon the same thing when imported from his neighbor. Retaliation follows, and the things which he makes easiest and cheapest, are excluded from the foreign market, and confined to the limited consumption at home. Thus free trade is destroyed, industry checked, and labor, being limited to a given amount, finds its compensation lowered. All this is as sensible as an attempt to make water run up hill. The true system with countries as with individuals is to foster intercourse and exchanges to their common and mutual advantage. A has a bed of fine potter's clay in the village of Blank-vine, and he makes pots there, and having his raw material cheap, is enabled to sell them low to Notown and other places. B, finding there is a large slaughter-house in Notown, and getting by contract a monopoly of the pelts of the cattle killed, establishes a tannery and currier's shop there, and sells the dressed skins at a low price at Blankville and other places. But C, at Notown, opens a pottery. He has to bring his clay from a long distance at great cost ; and A undersells him. D, at Blankville, seeing the prosperity of B, starts a tannery, but has to pay much higher for the hides he tans and curries, and is undersold. Instead of abandoning a business entered into NMI ea.. ONO/ .0./. man/	NO'	•	Nall Wear Far •••^^• •M• 1.••• •	411.41M-101111 under such disadvantages, they both • raise a clamor that they are ruined by foreign pauper labor, and the one persuades the village authorities of Blankville to put a tax on foreign leather coming into the village ; and the other, the authorities of Notown to serve foreign-made pots in the same way. The result is that the people of Blankville pay a higher price for leather and shoes and trunks and everything of which leather is a component part ; and the people of Notown find the prices of their pots and pipkins doubled. The only fellows benefited are C, and D, but not long. They only sell two-thirds as much as they should, but they get double for it. In process of time E and F, finding that C and D are doing so well, set up respectively pottery and tannery. Here is over production, competition, and ruinously low prices. Then C, D, E, and F, all go to the dogs. Free trade, and each to trade where he can find the best market with what he can make cheapest, is the natural course, and any attempt to handicap it in the interest of particular persons, results in evil. [Read Sumner's, Perry's and Bastiat's work on Free Trade, for the purpose of pursuing the theme further.] INCIDENTAL PROTECTION. Theoretically, there can be no doubt that a free interchange of commodities between countries is for the common good, as well as just and equit- able ; but countries are not wisely managed ac- cording to any theory, however plausible. A people must be governed according to its nature. Its habits, modes of thought, prejudices, passions, and even its weaknesses must be considered and allowed for, otherwise attempts at government are failures. The people of the United States are impatient under their local direct taxation, and every cent in the thousand added to their tax-bills provokes a howl of indignation. To superadd to that direct taxation by the Federal government would not be patiently submitted to.	Hence, it is absolutely necessary to resort to indirect taxa- tion, and the only indirect taxation possible is to levy a duty upon goods imported into the coun- try. But in framing a tariff of duties upon imports, the legislator has to consider something more than the mere amount of revenue thereby to be obtained. His business is to so carefully adjust the scale, the tariff, that it will lay as light a tax on the consumer as possible, but at the same time will handicap the foreign manufacturer who corn- petes with the manufactures of our own. This is called, and is, incidental protection; and may be, and ought to be, a matter of careful consideration. As a further, and still more valuable incidental protection, all raw materials not produced here, and entering into our manufactures, should pay no duty at all. This not only enables our own manufacturers to compete with goods from abroad, but to meet the foreigner on equal grounds in a neutral market, and it cheapens the cost of the manufactured article to the consumer here. There is another precaution which is not always taken, but should be, to ensure the ad- vantage of a low price to articles which are admitted free, either because we do not make or grow them, or they are raw material and that is to make that freedom from duty contingent upon the action of the countries from which they are imported. For instance—there is coffee. There is no duty upon it now, and yet the retail price to the consumer is nearly double what it was when it paid a tax. The reason of that is not far to seek. When the duty was removed, Brazil, from which we get the greater portion of the commod- ity, took advantage of the fact to impose an ex- port tax on every pound sent from the country, and we pay that just as we would an import tax. The proper plan would be to lay a heavy duty upon coffee, but to provide that the article coming from a country where it was shown had laid no export tax on it, should be exempt from duty, and come in free, [This ground is taken in no published work that we can remember, but will be found laid down in a series of articles written in 1888 by Dr. Thomas Dunn English in the Newark Journal. The writer can easily expand the essay, if he desire, from the above passages.] CIVIL SERVICE REFORM. FOR. The public service requires as much efficiency as private service. A certain amount of necessary work is to be done, and for this purpose only efficient agents should be selected. In private service the head of a firm or corporation, or the 'single person engaged in business, requires of his subordinate clerk honesty, for which his only guarantee is reputation and associations; capability, for which a thorough examination is necessary, and obedience to orders, which is in itself honesty and faithfulness to duty. When a vacancy occurs in any department, the wise manager selects or promotes from among those already in his employ rather than seeking outside, because he thus obtains experience, in addition to the other qualifications. It is notorious that the present system in the public service is of a different kind. The primary object in selecting men for the civil service of the public is to reward political partisans at every change of administration. Hence the main qualifications which should be requisite, are almost if not quite overlooked ; the consequence is neglect, dishonesty, and a loose conduct of public affairs. In the military service the same tests are required as in private business. The sub-lieutenant is subject to a course of training, and to a rigid examination for fitness. As vacancies occur above, he is promoted. It is only when he has shown exceptional capacity that he is lifted above his seniors, and such instances are exceptional. There can be no reason assigned why the civil service should not be filled on the same principle, but every reason why it should.. Both services, to be successful, require proper officials to discharge the necessary duties, and these require equal selection in training. Permanency of tenure, where good conduct is present, is another requisite for official excellence. Even if the new man possess the requisite qualifications, his activity and precision is not so great at his entrance upon his place, and for some time after. Even when lie has mastered all the minor details with which he had not been familiar, and fallen into the official rut, his energy is impaired and his steadiness of work hampered by the uncertainty of his position. He is prone, however high his sense of duty may be, to look to the favor of his superior rather than to the manner in which he executes his duty, as a means to retain his place. This base standard deteriorates the character of the public service, and debases the official. The improvements required in the civil service, under the federal, State and municipal governments are-1, Honesty ; 2,•Literary and business qualifications ; 3, Correct personal habits. And these are to be ensured by a preliminary examination. Then comes 4, Experience, which is to be secured by promotion from those below as vacancies occur, and by a tenure which is fixed by good behavior. With all these there will be some of the public servants who will turn out badly. They may become neglectful, insolent, or even dishonest. Against such occasional changes of character or conduct, no system of selection can effectually guard. But the remedy is always at hand, in the shape of a summary discharge for cause. And without cause, and one determined after impartial investigation, no public servant of the minor grades, should be removed from office. [Consult, with the usual allowance for the zeal of an author, Eaton's Civil Service in Great Britain. The writer will find his best points in the success in private enterprise by the employment only of skilled and faithful agents.) CIVIL SERVICE REFORM. AGAINST. The greater part of the offices to be filled in the civil service of the United States do not require an expert. Their duties can be learned, as a general thing, in a few days—frequently in a few hours ; and most of them are purely executive, and require no special training. Those that are not confined to manual labor, can not be properly filled by those who are illiterate, we admit ; a tide-waiter, a postal-clerk, a mail-carrier, and such, should be able to read, write and cipher; should have sound health, and should be honest and faithful. In some special departments they require more knowledge, sometimes of a special kind. A translator for the State Department requires a knowledge of the foreign languages, as well as English; and he should be able to write well and even elegantly. But it is not needed that he shall be well informed in electricity and hydrodynamics. The special knowledge required is indicated by the duties to be performed. For over a hundred years the offices, first under the old confederation, and then under the Union, were filled without a preliminary examination. They were filled by the partisans of the respective parties. These were rarely, if they were ever, selected because of their eminent general ability, or even their special fitness. The test was their personal influence, or the personal influence of the friends who recommended them and this influence was gained solely through partisan service. Yet the duties of office have been generally discharged assiduously and faithfully. Above all they were discharged civilly„in marked contrast with those of officials abroad, where a system of civil service examination is said to prevail. No official here dared to have the same surly demeanor, nor the same dilatory movements which prevail abroad, and which Dickens has so admirably satirised by two phrases—the " Circumlocution Office ", and " How not to do it	1) The truth is that few of the minor positions in the civil service—none, except those requiring experts—require a special training. They can be well filled by persons of honesty and average brains, with only the ordinary education of the country school. That no official should be appointed who has not a good reputation for honesty and industry, or is deficient in the three R's—reading, 'riting and 'rithmetic, goes without saying. But to compel a letter-carrier to submit to an examination in the higher branches of arithmetic, or a gauger to one upon geography of the United States, is simply an act of folly. What has the one to do with cube root, and the other in the exact county and State in which Podunk or Skunk- vile may be situated ? The letter-carrier requires good legs and ordinary honesty, and the gauger a knowledge of the principles of gauging, and honesty likewise ; and that is all there is of it. Thus fa? the new system is a ridiculous failure. It was meant that incumbents should be ap- pointed without reference to their political opin- ions, and yet the party in power, which ever it is, manages to get in office its own partisans and no other. The general public is well satisfied with the lack of success. When a party is over- thrown for the time, and supplanted by another, it is an evidence of the popular will. The people hold the party in possession responsible for the administration of public affairs. But if its subor- dinates be largely from those who are opposed to its views, this relieves it of responsibility at once. Responsibility can only grow out of power that has all the means and agents at its disposal. There is still another reason why the old sys- tem, whatever be its defects, is the best. The feelings of our people, the character of our insti- tutions, and the genius of our system of govern- ment is opposed to the creation of a privileged class. A bureaucracy is as capable of abuse and oppression as any other of the " cracys "—aristoc- racy, plutocracy, or what not ; the man who holds his office independently of his superiors, may perform his official duties within the letter of the role, so that no cause is shown for his displace- ment ; but he shows in his manner a superciliousness and lack of civility, begot of security. The offensive manner of " Jack-in-office" is well-known. Of course, it is not meant to imply that the members of the civil service shall not be fitted for their duties. Fitness is the first requisite. A fair examination to determine that is proper. But that found, let each party in power choose its officials from its own ranks. Nor is a long tenure in office desirable. Frequent changes add to efficiency and vigor. At to the assertion that you can not readily supply the place of a trained official, that is the veriest nonsense. Death makes removals of the most experienced, and the fitting successor of the dead is always found. [Read Dickens's " Our Mutual Friend " and it will give you some apt points in this connection.] OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS SHOULD TEACH MORE The object in providing schools for children at the public expense, is to give the rising generation as much knowledge as may be useful to them in after life. Another leading object is to train them in morals and manners, and to accustom them to discipline. Another object is to indirectly give support to the security of life, person and property. The instruction should be elementary, but it should embrace as many departments of knowledge as possible. To confine it to reading, writing and arithmetic, may be dictated by parsimony, but not by wisdom. To extend itto the elements of grammar, and to a few leading facts about geography is not enough. The principles of natural philosophy, especially that relating to dynamic forces, should be taught. The laws of health, the more important facts in physiology, should form part of the course. Enough of astronomy should be given to make the youth familiar with the various stars, the courses of the planets and the general system of the universe. Mineralogy is not only a pleasing study, but one calculated to be useful in after life. Music is a .• . necessity in all mental training. In short, the child should be given as much rudimentary knowledge as possible. Much of this may be wasted, it is said. Possibly. None can tell the bent of the child's mind, nor in what department of industry it may find the best field for activity in after years. But these very studies will assist to develop the latent special powers, and thus to determine the child's future. It is to the interest of the State that the capacity of each citizen should be led into the proper channel, for this increases the productive energy and general prosperity of the country ; and wherever there is a decided tendency to any XSZ	BILBLETUIV ICtitiA15. particular pursuit not a momentary fancy, but what proves to be an irresistible leaning—then the school should provide a more extended course of instruction in all knowledge connected with it. The tendency of the age is to expand the curriculum of instruction rather than to limit it, and it is a praiseworthy disposition of the popular mind. The standard of knowledge is far higher than it was a hundred years since, and the amount of elementary instruction should be raised in accordance with that fact. We tax ourselves cheerfully in order that even the poorest may not grow up in ignorance. Let us have the full benefit of the money we spend. Give the children all the knowledge the system of teaching can impart, and thus give the humblest a chance during their life to rise higher in the social scale, and develop in the right direction whatever talent they may naturally possess. OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS SHOULD TEACH LESS. Tried by a strict standard, our public schools should merely give instruction in the primary branches of knowledge, or rather in those branches by which knowledge may be acquired. That is all that is required by public need, or by the dictates of prudent and wise statesmanship. CI II. .5 1., Xi 1- L 1	.&	A. I O.	AZ0 That instruction, however, should be thorough. Anything which mars its thoroughness should be avoided. An attempt to teach too much ends in only imparting a smattering of knowledge. It strikes us that our public school system is acquiring a hot-house plan rather than good solid . old-fashioned culture—that we are trying to force too much out of the mental soil, and it is about time that these ambitious efforts to make artists, scientists, philosophers and statesmen out of school children, should stop. There is such a thing as dwarfing the intellect in attempting to overfeed it, and this is growing to be a crying evil. It is no uncommon thing to see a little girl of ten, bright-eyed and pale-faced, hurrying from school with a load of books, in haste to cram herself by evening study, for the work of next day.	• " What are your studies, my little dear, besides reading, writing and arithmetic ?" " Geography, grammar, natural philosophy, history—" " Stop, that will do." The head is crammed full of a number of things, piled over one another, and one frequently driving out the 'other. One step has not been firmly set on the ladder of knowledge, before the foot is urged to another. How much of this is retained? This accumulation of co-existing studies is an enemy to thoroughness. It is better to learn lit- &Wei	I JCL J3iAJW• ur av	Arl 0.1 42 i AO. tle, well, than to learn much, badly. In the latter case it is not learned at all. Words are piled in the mind, without ideas. Let us give a case in point--a real fact :- Little Annie came home one day, and her father asked her—" What are they teaching you at school ? " "Oh, lots of things, papa—geography, and—" "Geography, eh ? Let me see. If you and I were to take the wagon, and ride somewhere ? " " Yes, papa." " And we were to come to some water, and were to ride along its shore for many miles, and without losing sight of it, or crossing it, were to come back to where we had started. Do you un- derstand me ? " " Yes, papa. Go all around it and never lose sight of it, and come back to where we began." " Precisely. Now what would you call that water ? " (Hesitatingly)—" A—a river ? " Annie, can you tell me what a lake is ?" (Glibly)—" A lake is a great body of water en- tirely surrounded by land." Now here the child had received words, no more. The teacher had intended to be con- seientious, but had too much to do. It was less her fault than that of the system. There was too much to do. It was beyond the capacity. of the undeveloped childish mind to take in so many things at one, except in the most superficial way. Doubtless, if geography alone had been added to the three primary branches, it might have been well taught ; but when the little brain had to retain at the same time the leading facts of history, the rules of syntax, the figures of prosody, the principles of mechanics, of chemistry, and absurdity only knows what else, something had to escape to make way for some of the rest of the company, and nothing had a good seat. Our common schools should attempt less, and they would be able to perform more. [Books are less to be depended on for elaborating essays pro or con on this subject, then on the observation of the writer. A great deal can be said on both sides, and the best determination of the subject depends upon the natural capacity and the physical health of pupils.] • WIT AND HUMOR. Wit is a thing of subtle comparison ; humor, of unexpectedness. Wit is a companion of the refined ; humor of the vulgar. But the latter is popular with all classes. He sits easily on the three legged stool, in the cabin.; and stretches himself contentedly in an easy chair in the rich man's parlor. Wit has a select circle of companions ; but -humor has everybody for a friend. We take off our hat to Wit, but we put out our Mail"	.14I	V 4.V 41:11 Fa ill LA i A.ft hand to Humor for a hearty shake. Wit is our " grand old man"; but Humor "is a jolly good fellow, which nobody can deny ". The distinction between wit and humor is best taught by example :—Thus, when a foreigner in search of lodgings, was shown the rooms by a bright, pretty servant girl, he said, banteringly " Are you to be let with the apartments, my dear ? " The reply came instantly—" No, sir ; I am to be let alone." The wit of the retort was keen as a razor's edge. But when the Western joker spoke of a man whose feet was so large that he had to go to the forks of the road in order to pull off his boots, there was humor. That the feet were so large that nothing short of the forks of the road would serve for a boot-jack, was ex- travagantly absurd, but it was unexpected ; and it is in the combination of extravagant absurdity, and unexpectedness, in which the fun lay. Yet that kind of humor is not always appre- ciated. An Englishman, on hearing the last story, stared in wonder and said—" But why couldn't he draw 'em off in the house ?" His mind only grasped the idea of the locality, and not the strange use to which it was to be put. There are various varieties of humor, and in each of these there are more or less masters to study. The base and sensual. Of this you will find in- stances abundantly in Rabelais, Dean Swift and Lawrence Sterne. It is not at all cleanly, and is a prostitution and debasement of humor, which should not soil the mind. It is mingled with wit in these writers, so much so that it is difficult to find where the wit ends, and the humor begins, but it is mixed with more or less uncleanness of thought and expression. Our fathers indulged in this variety, but the age has improved over its predecessors, and sensual humor is banished from decent society. The sarcastic and biting. Dean Swift gives us most of this, and it can be found in Pope's Dun- ciad, and in Byron abundantly. Thackeray furnishes it abundantly in all his works, and Douglass Jerrold was one of its masters. It is of an unpleasant kind, and panders to malignant feelings. The playful and kindly. This hurts no one, and amuses everybody. It bubbles up from the humorist like water in a fountain by sunlight, throwing, up spray, and crowned by rainbows. Sometime it is combined with the preceding, but properly enough, since it does not attack persons, but things ; and is aimed not at individuals, but at faults and follies. It is the ally of virtue and good order, and should be cherished. Addison, Washington Irving, Sydney Smith, Dr. Holmes, Lowell, and a host of others, afford specimens. The rollicking and sometimes reckless. Dr. Lever's Irish stories are full of this, and Carleton, another Irish writer, gives enough for quotations. The absurd and inconsequential. This is in favor just now, and forms what is known in Eng- land as " American humor". It is large, broad and smacks of the soil, and humorists of that sort are almost peculiar to this country. The field is large, and, contrary to the saying, the laborers are many. The anecdotes floating through the journals, embodying this species of fun, if printed in volumes would stock a good-sized library. Mark Twain, Josh Billings, and a hundred more, have made this sort of humor the daily reading of both hemispheres. Then there are subdivisions of all these. Some- times one of them presents itself at once, and at other times is sly. Sometimes it sparkles on the surface, and can be picked up at once ; and at other times it is more or less buried, and has to be dug out of its surroundings. Sometimes it is in the mere turn of an expression, or the happy use of an unexpected word ; at other times it per- meates a paragraph, a , or a whole vol- ume. When it comes alone, we enjoy it, dismiss it, and think no more of it ; but when combined with wit, it lingers longer in our memory. With- out it, the world were a dull and cheerless place enough. [This may be expanded into a popular lecture by judic- ious quotations under the various heads from Irving's, Swift's, Sydney Smith's, Holmes's, Lowell's, Mark Twain's, Lover's, Lever's, Hawes's, Jule Hooper's, and Longstreet's Works, and from the current pen of the day, of which the journals and magazines furnish ample store.] LECTURES. A lecture is an expanded essay. But it differs from the essay in character, as well as length. The essay is read by some one ; the lecture is read to many. The latter therefore requires to be epigrammatic and declamatory. It must be so constructed as to flow trippingly from the tongue. It is a prepared speech, and its speaker must seem to be terribly in earnest. As any of the foregoing skeletons may be expanded into elaborate essays, or be made the basis of such, so any essay may become the basis of a lecture, either by judicious additions, or by suggestion. The latter is the best thing to do, and in order to show the mode, we shall take one of the foregoing, and expand it into a nearly complete lecture. There are two essays on a moot topic further back in this volume—one in favor of a prohibitory liquor law, and the other opposed to it. To construct a lecture upon the affirmative side, requires no art, and no example is neces- sary. It is a popular subject, and when we consider how much mischief intemperance has caused, is sustained by sympathy. To take the converse side is more difficult. Yet we propose to show how a plausible lecture on that subject may be constructed ; and how, without seeming to be an expansion, it shall grow out of the essay. The difference is, while in the essay the subject is treated without strict order, in the lecture it is subjected to methodical arrangement, and prepared for effective delivery. IS "PROHIBITION" EFFECTIVE? When a law invading personal freedom is proposed—when it is to be fundamental, and, as part of the State Constitution, forbids legislation, and limits the sovereignty of the people—it should be closely scrutinised by those jealous of their individual and municipal rights. We have to consider the evils at which it is aimed, and whether additional measures are required for their removal ; and, those points having been determined, whether the proposed law will be likely to effect its purpose. In this consideration we are bound to look at the nature of the measure itself ; the natural, or even artificial obstacles it is likely to meet, and to the experience of those States or peoples that have adopted that or a similar law. It is proper also to consider the habits, character and prejudices of the people for whom the law is made. The judicious law-giver requires all this before he adopt a new law, or even seriously modify one already in existence ; and, in a free State, the people, who govern, and whose safety requires that these conditions be vigorously fulfilled. Laws framed otherwise, lose force and vitality for lack of popular will. This, so eminently true in a free State, is nearly as true under a rigid despotism. In one an active, and in the other, a passive resistance defeats the object of a distasteful law. The prejudices and habits of a people will modify, if nothing more, the most stringent provisions of an offensive statute. The power of the State thus becomes a thing of contempt. For these reasons I propose to submit this proposition—nominally to prohibit the making and selling of all alcoholic drinks, but really preventing buying by withholding supply—to the test of common sense, in the light of the character of mankind, and the recorded experience of States. The sad effects of drunkenness are not in dispute. The streets, the almshouses, the jails and the grave-yards forbid controversy. Their sermons ring loudly in the ears of the humane. They are seen among all races and peoples ; they are found in the but of the peasant and the palace of the king. So it was in the earliest history, and so it will continue during the ages. After other methods had been tried for its expulsion, the pseudo-philanthropists of Maine disinterred from the dead follies of the past, the plan of enforcing total abstinence by law ; and, undeterred by its ghastly failure there, propose to introduce it here, and to make it a part of the State Constitution, in order to fetter the hands of the people, where experience shall have led them to a desire to abandon the experiment. Enquiry into this matter embraces two heads :- First :—Is a law of this kind likely to succeed through its own nature, and under attendant cir- cumstances? Prohibition is founded upon total abstinence,a crime against nature, and foreign to the instincts of man. From the very earliest ages, so far back as we have any authentic history, we find that man, savage or civilised, discovered the laws of fermentation, and applied them to his inherent love of stimulants. Tracing the course of history down, we find the same, and also that man, wher- ever debarred from or denied alcoholic stimu- lants, falls back on the more dangerous narcotics. The universality of the habit ; its constant pursuit under advantage or disadvantage ; the fact that alcohol is generated in the bread we eat ; that starchy food is converted into glucose by the ptyalin in the saliva ; that cane-sugar undergoes the same change in the same way ; that the glucose is converted into alcohol in the stomach, and partly into acetic acid in the stomach preparatory to decomposition and assimilation by the system ; all show the desire to be one of the fixed instincts of man. The lower animals do not appear to have it, though the cattle relish the fermented alcoholic food of the Silo, and hence we find them held up, the hog included, for human imitation. The hog does not make root-beer, currant wine, or any other home-made drunkmaker ; nor does he go about the streets singing " we won't 'go home till morning"; nor does he cook his victuals, nor wear clothes, nor get up societies for the regulation of his neighbor's food, drink or dress. It is possible that the hog may be the happier for that—except at killing time ; but man will not follow his example, whatever the hog's friends and admirers may urge. Men who think they are wiser than their Creator, and believe that had they been consulted at the beginning, there would have been one less instinct implanted in man, mourning over this defect in our moral constitution, have endeavored to repress the desire rather than prevent its abuse. Attempts have been made' by ascetics from early days to enforce total abstinence from any indulgence they had no fancy for. But this was mainly by precept and ostensible example. It was left for Mahommed and the Maine teetotal- ers, with a spasmodic attempt in England, to regulate men's diet by law. A sect of the He- brews, known as the Nazarites, not only abjured wine, but would not even eat the grape, refusing the fruit of the vine from the skin to the seed. Samson was a Nazarite. He drank no wine, and he ate no grapes, though he notably gratified another instinct ; and it was that amiable failing, and not drunkenness, which brought about his ruin. The Saviour marked his contempt for those ascetics, not alone by making wine miracu- lously at the wedding-feast at Cana, but by using the same drink at his Last Supper, and ordering its drinking perpetually in memory of him and his last feast with his disciples. The Pharisees of that time stigmatised him, though he drank temperately, as a wine-bibber ; the Pharisees of to-day do the same with meaner beings. Mahom- med, to make the greatest gap possible between his followers and those of Jesus, forbade wine altogether ; and to-day his disciples, clad in a thin vesture of mock Christianity, are occu- pying Christian pulpits, and preaching an essen- tial doctrine of the Crescent to the followers of the Cross. Mahommed did what he did to further the success of his imposture ; the Mahommedans of Maine from their meddlesome nature. The false prophets of Maine gain dupes, but find a bar to success in the inherent antagonism of human instinct. When, superadded to the dictum of Mahommed, which most of his followers secretly disobey, or substitute opium or hasheech, you have a legal command, the failure becomes the mere signal through another and invincible cause. There is a disposition in all men, and especially in freemen, to resist that tyranny which would place a matter belonging to the church, the schoolhouse and the family, under the control of the State. This resistance to tyranny may be at- tended by weakened respect for law. If a com- munity become thus demoralised, the fault lies in the degrading measure. You turn the masses into wolves, and complain that they turn and rend you. Nothing so weakens the dignity of the State as the multiplication of offenses by law— the constant conversion of something not maim: in se, into a place among things mala prohibita. It costs the ignorant or unreflecting no pang of conscience to disobey such a law. I obey it, be- cause I have been so educated—and conscience is a matter of education ; but thousands are not so trained. If they can, they resist ; if they have not the power of resistance, they evade. Hence it is that a prohibitory liquor law generates hy- pocrisy, fraud and deceit, as well as less respect for law in the abstract Every man, outside of the Camanches, feels it wrong to steal a horse, and either avoids the theft, or becomes a criminal in defiance of his convictions but a man eminent for his virtues may neglect to sweep the snow off his side-walk, as the city ordinance directs, and suffer it to thaw, and then freeze, and so trip up unwary passengers to the peril of their limbs. Yet the law is positive in both cases. Much more marked is this neglect or evasion when your law attempts to settle, by arbitrary power, a question of health, morals or diet, appertaining to the citizen, and thus makes sumptuary legislation. For your law here is aimed at the consumers, through the producer and seller. Incidentally ,that is another cause of its failure. It violates the most potent law of trade, and seeks to destroy the demand by cutting off the supply. At this point we are apt to be told that the law is not made because of moderate, but immoderate drinking, or, taking an opposite ground, that drinking is not good for any one, even in moderation. To the first I reply, that because some one else can not control his appetite, I, who can and do, am not therefore to be denied my right ; and to the second, that the goodness or badness of drinking temperately, is a matter of opinion of which these men are not the supreme judges. It is a mere re-appearance in another shape of an old plea for tyranny. The same thing made the Pagans throw the Christians to -the lions ; lit up the fires of Madrid and Smithfield ; caused the Prelatists to hang the Puritans, the Puritans to hang the Quakers, and the Quakers to—well, the Quakers generally sustain the Maine liquor law. Hence arises the insurmountable obstacle to the success of this law, an obstacle growing from the nature of our institutions, and the personal independence which our State and municipal governments were mainly created to defend. Our forefathers came here, as others followed for like purpose, to escape the meddling of law with matters of morals. They only admitted the right of the State to regulate manners. It is true that some of those who settled down East, as soon as they escaped from tyranny, became tyrants in turn, and, professing Christianity and love of human rights, made a code which min- gled the cant of the Pharisee with the decrees of despotism. The Maine law is a luxuriant shoot from that same old tree. But the great mass of the people are not of that breed.. They hold their personal freedom in jealous regard, and claim that government is instituted to preserve, not destroy it. God forbid we should ever be other than that. A people who submit to have what they may eat, drink or wear prescribed by self-constituted censors, are only fit for abject slavery. Sumptuary laws never have succeeded in any land, and never will. The shore of his- tory is strewn with the wrecks of such measures. The early monarchs of England made some efforts in that way, and one of them strove to prevent beer-drinking altogether, They failed. Other attempts were made later on, and the act of Geo. II, forbade absolutely the retailing of ar- dent spirits. It signally failed, and was wisely re- pealed. Stimulants of a more narcotic nature furnish a larger experience. A Turkish sultan prohibited the use of tobacco in his dominions under the severest penalties, extending even to the life of the offender. Yet the Turks remain the greatest smokers in Europe. If the people of other lands defied or continued these attempts, what may you expect of the American citizen when you interfere with his social or domestic habits ? When indulging in these, should he in- terfere with the rights of others, break the peace, disturb order, violate decorum, or make himself a social nuisance, that is a different affair. Then he is open to punishment. He has offended contra bonos mores, and the penalty should be sharp and severe. Neither honor, nor manhood, nor per- sonal rights are invaded in such a case, but vin- dicated. But that you and I, who can control our appetite, and can drink a glass of beer or wine, or refrain at our will, should be forced to do not what we please, but what others whose judg- ment we despise may order, is too much. That is the crowning reason why a prohibitory liquor law Must inevitably fail. Now to treat on the other head. Secondly :—Has the absolute prohibition of the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquor succeeded where most faithfully and bersistently tried, Maine is the typical place, and the observations of residents and visitors alike concur in showing there is no practical difficulty in obtaining liquor there—beer on tap included. But I do not pro- pose to rely on that testimony alone, but to test the success or failure of the law by a higher standard than parole evidence. The avowed object of the Maine law was to prohibit the sale of any liquor at all, except in such few cases as even the most searching law could not reach ; and, as no one could get drunk without drinking, to nearly if not quite prevent drunkenness. As drunkenness is one of the most potent causes of poverty, this would sensibly de- crease pauperism, and by enforcing total absti- nence, prevent that deterioration of the race which they avowed even moderate drinking pro- duced, which would result in a notable decrease of insanity, idiocy and physical defects. First, as to liquor-selling. The returns of the Federal excise show that the number of persons who take out licenses in Maine as retail liquor dealers, has doubled within the last few years, and increases each year. It has been asserted that some of these licenses are taken out by the State and county liquor agents. But that is an error. Those liquor agents do not take out a li- cense at all, and are not required to by the reve- nue laws. Neal Dow has said that the bulk of these licenses are taken out by druggists in the regular conduct of their business. That is not true. All persons requiring liquor or alcoholfor medical or mechanical :purposes must go to the official agent—the law is imperative. The drug- gist has not to take out a license to use alcohol, nor to sell a tincture when prescribed. But the druggist has no right under the State law to sell liquor, and if the druggists be part of the small army which pays the United States for license in Maine, they are illicit dram-sellers, neither more nor less. I wish to call your attention to another fact in this connection. In looking over a file of the Commissioner's Reports, you will find the in- crease of the number of retail liquor-dealers' licenses in the States of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont from 1880 to 1889, to be over 10 per cent., when, if the laws were effective, there should be no license taken out at all. In the States of New York and New Jersey, during the same period, the increase has been respectively 25 and • i6 per cent. In the three prohibition States the increase has been about that of popu- lation, which grows there slowly in the other States, much less—in New Jersey about one-half. And another remarkable fact is that these three States have in proportion to their voting popula- tion, more licenses required per hundred than in a number of the other States of the Union where the sale is not prohibited by law. Secondly : as to drunkenness. I do not propose to encumber any argument with -dry tables of figures, and shall deal with the matter generally. The arrests for drunkenness, and for offences traceable to that cause, give a fair notion of its extent. The drunkard in New York or Maine is treated much the same. Let him tipple at home, and go to bed drunk, or keep quiet as he mean- ders home on the sidewalk, and he is not much troubled. But let him take up his lodgings in the street, or get into a fight, or make night hideous with his howling, and a blue-coated guardian of the peace affords him an interview with a sitting magistrate. In looking over the records a strong contrast will be observed. In New York City the larger portion appear to drink. The place is always half full of strangers, and, adding to these, those who sleep in the adjoining cities, but do business in New York for six days out of the seven, the floating population of New York is over a half million. There come luckless adventurers who drink to drown their disappointment ; strangers, who drink to kill time ; traders, who seem to think a cocktail an essential part of a bargain ; while whiskey-shops, wine-shops and beer-shops are in almost every block, and to be met with at every turn. And yet the percentage of arrests in proportion to the resident population in 188o, which I take as the census year—not counting the regular residents, is 2.44 per cen- turn, far behind that of Portland, Maine, in the same year, which was 3.56 per centum—the last ahead of that of Philadelphia and San Francisco, two cities where toping has long been one of the industrial arts. When you come to compare smaller cities in the two States or in New Jersey with Maine, or in either of the middle States with Vermont or New Hampshire, the contrast is equally striking. There is the town of Augusta, Maine, with 8,665 population, which has over 2 per cent. of arrests for drunkenness, a much greater amount than of any town of the same size,or of one twice, or five times as large, in New York, or New Jersey. There are the official tables. Judge for yourselves. And of the 42o police arrests that year—nearly one-twentieth of the population, clergymen, old maids and babies, you find that 342 may be set down to whiskey. There were 175 for drunkenness•with disturbance (whiskey) ; 53 for assault and battery (whiskey) ; 1, assault and battery, with intent to kill (whiskey, or a woman) ; 3, disturbance on the street (whiskey) ; and 26, liquor selling (whiskey, of course). Ob- serve that the arrests for drunkenness are all coupled with disturbance. The quiet drunkards in Maine booze in peace. The boiled owl appears to be the State bird, and they don't disturb him. I know that Augusta is the seat of the legislature, and there is more or less drunkenness in all leg- islative towns. Whether this is because of the floating population, or because the natives, dis- gusted at the sobriety of the members, drink more to exhibit their feeling, or whether whiskey is a potent factor in legislation where it figures as stationery, I do not pretend to determine. But you will note another fact as you go over the statistics. During four of the years between 1870 and 1880, they made special raids through the State to enforce prohibition. During that time the arrests were heavier, and in one year they were 4.38 per cent. in Bangor, and over 5 per cent. in Portland. Five per cent. ! About one- fourth of the number of the adult males ! What a Paradise of sobriety is made by a prohibitory law ! Thirdly ; as to pauperism. Look over the records of the various towns in Maine, and note the poor-expenses, and the cost per capita of the population. You will notice that the cost to each inhabitant, man, woman and child, runs from 43 cents, to an inconsiderable fraction less than one dollar—during the great liquor raid it ran up, in one place, to a dollar and a half , and then ob- serve that nowhere in New York or New Jersey have they reached the minimum of that cost. The extreme rate in Bangor for one year was ex- ceptional , but take that in Bath, during i880, and if inflicted in certain middle State towns and cities at the time it would have aston- ished the rate payers. It would have levied for the maintenance of the poor in New York State, in Buffalo, $154,979 ; in Albany, $90,668 ; Roch- ester, $89,277 ; and even the little city of Bing- hamton, $17,300. In New Jersey, Newark, instead of less than $46,500 would have had to place $136,372 in her tax levy for this item ; Hobo- ken, instead of less than $5,000, would have had $39,960 ; and so on, all through the State. And the paupers in -Maine are fed and housed at the cheapest rate. To treat them as such are treated in New York or New Jersey would materially in- crease the figures. Outside of the case of Bath, which is extreme, the poor-tax in Maine runs from 30 to 100 per cent. over towns of like mag- nitude in the Middle States. This paves the way for notice of the fact that there is a greater proportionate number of paupers in the three down-east prohibition States, than in any other State in the union. We would naturally expect New York to have the most, and the State which is her sea-board neighbor, the next. New York has large cities, and to her metropolis comes the largest amount of foreigners. Those who have means—the Germans and Swedes especially —go West, and take up public land. The poorer immigrant can get no farther than the port at which he lands. There are many who do not find this country to be El Dorado. Their little stock of money is soon exhausted ; the supply of laborers is more than the demand for labor ; or sickness comes. Thousands of honest and industrious people thus become public charges. That much for New York, and its adjacent cities. The conditions are different in Maine. , That is not a State foreigners go to. It should , have half the poverty of New York ; it does have twice as much. The record of the census year shows it. Maine's pauperism is exceeded by that of no State in the Union, save New Hampshire, and New Hampshire is a prohibition State, with a law more stringent than that of Maine. The paupers in New York State for 1880, were 12,407, or one. in 4.09 ; in New Jersey, 2,981, or one in 379 ; while those of Maine were 3,211, or one in 202, and those in New Hampshire, 2,037, or one in 120. The average number of paupers in the whole United States was one in 54.5. •	Now all pauperism does not proceed from drunkenness, nor, if we were all totally abstinent, should we all be rich. There are other causes for poverty than drink, and drink is frequently a consequence rather than a cause. The prohibitionists are always insisting on the pauperism resulting directly from excessive drinking, and indirectly from moderate drinking. I am merely taking deductions froth the premises they furnish. But one thing must be admitted, namely : that drunkenness, even when coming from poverty intensifies it, and assists materially in reducing it to the _lower level of pauperism. It generates 4o= .•• Ihr	a A./ 'V a v+ Ade IV • wastefulness, lack of energy and unthrift ; where you find it in such enormous amount as in Maine and New Hampshire, the irresistible conclusion comes that many of the people there drink to excess ; and, if they drink to excess, under the prohibition of the making and selling of intoxi- cating liquors, your prohibitory law is of no prac- tical value. It is either not enforced at all, or its spasmodic and irregular enforcement increases the evils at which it is aimed. Fourthly:—As to physical degeneracy, and the deterioration of the human race. It is claimed that drunkenness enervates the productive powers of the human race, and vitiates the stock. That is in a 'measure true. It is also claimed that one- half of the cases—some reckless teetotalers say all—of insanity and idiocy are due to the same cause. As to insanity that is not true. A search of the records of the lunatic asylums shows, wherever they make a close investigation into the causes of insanity, alcoholism bears the pro- portion of from eight to twelve per cent., slightly less than in Europe. With idiocy it is different. Where parents narcotise themselves habitually with opium, alcohol, or any other stimulant pushed to narcotism, the chances for idiocy in the offspring are increased. Applying these facts, however, in the sweeping way the mock philanthrophists put them ; assuming their posi- tion to be true in its length, breadth and height, where does it lead us ? Let us examine the returns for these, and for physical defects of the race, in the two Middle States quoted, and in the three prohibitory New England States. In New •	York, you have 20,139 lunatics and idiots in a population of 5,082,871, which is one in 252. In New Jersey, you have 3461, which is one in 326.; Now turn to the other States. In Maine, you have 2,867, or one in 226 ; in New Hampshire, 1,759, or one in 197 ; and in Vermont, 1,819, or one in 183. Here is the gauge by which our prohibition friends determine the amount of drunkenness, and it registers sadly for the prohibitory States. But, if you confine your investigation to the native population, the results are still comparatively worse, though positively better all around. For then we find of the native lunatics and idiots, New York has 13,308, or one in 298; New Jersey, 2,422, or one in 375, Maine 2,647, or one in 222 ; New Hampshire, 1,605, or one in 187 ; and Vermont, 1,581, or one in 121. As to other physical defects said to arise from the same cause, though how or why I am unable to see, they are at similar ratio. In New York, there are 8,775 deaf mutes and blind, or one in 579, and 6,476 of them, or one in 598, natives. In New Jersey, there are 1,356, or one in 834, with 1,069, or one in 851, natives. In Maine, there are 1,203, or one in 509, and 1,131, or one in 851, natives. In New Hampshire, there are 633, or one in 548, with 584, or one in 514, natives. In Vermont, there are 698, or one in 490, with 573, or one in 508, natives. Certainly prohibitory laws have not improved the stock. The deterioration of the human race is shown by a decrease in the growth of population. And here we have a striking instance of the terrible effects of drunkenness, as produced by the pro- hibitory law of Maine. When Maine was a dis- trict, in 1800, it had a population of 131,779, while New Jersey had in the same year, a popu- lation of 183,558, New York, 589,051. But the unrivalled water-power, the numerous harbors, and the mineral and forest resources of Maine had marked her for the seat of a prosperous com- monwealth. In a half century, her progress was remarkable. In 1850, New York had in- creased to 3,006,394 souls, a gain of 427 per cent. To her borders there set a constant tide of migra- tion, and a heavy percentage of that remained with her. New Jersey, living between two great States, and supposed to derive advantages from both, only reached 489,555, a gain of less than 167 per cent. Maine rose meanwhile to 583,159, or over 344 per cent., mainly without exterior gain. But while New York and New Jersey, the one in 1847, and the other in 1849, had adopted quasi-prohibitionary laws, they both abandoned them at or before 1850. In the following year Maine adopted prohibition, and has kept it. Now mask the difference of progress from 1850 to 1880. In the latter year, New York had grown during the thirty years to 5,082,871, an increase of 64 per cent ; New Jersey, to 1,131,- 116, or over 131 per cent.; while Maine, in the same period, only reached 648,936, which is less than 12 per cent. This falling off has been asserted to be due to the enterprise of the Maine young men, who go elsewhere in large numbers, to seek their for- tunes. If that were true, there should be a great surplus female population in Maine. But that is conspicuously not the fact. The record shows of the native population of the three States, that New York has a surplus of females of 46,138, or 2.44 per cent. ; New Jersey, 13,564, or 3.02 per cent. ; and Maine only 1,033, or 0.35 per cent. True, there is a migration from Maine, nearly as much from New York, and both are ahead of New Jersey. But the surplus of females shows it is from New York and New Jersey, the enter- prising young men go. From Maine, the exodus seems to be in couples. Let this be explained by any ingenious fallacy, while I proceed to another, and crucial test. In 1880, there were in New York, 1,101,443 children under ten years of age, which is 21.65 per cent., and yet the tenement system in New York city kills off children like a pestilence. In Maine, there were 129,267, or 19.91 per cent. ; in Ver- mont, 68,234, or 20.53 per cent, ; and in New Hampsnire, 60,803, or 17.52 per cent. But per- haps it may be said that it is the greater amount of foreigners in New York that does this—it be- ing erroneously assumed that foreigners are more fecund than natives. Let this notion be dispersed by the facts. Of those born to the natives in New York, there were 1,079,404, or 27.87 per cent. ; New Jersey, 260,549, or 28.63 per cent. Maine had 125,353, or 21.23 per cent. ; Vermont, 66.181, or 22.71 per cent., and New Hampshire, 57,352, or 19.06 per cent. But I have not done with this test. Take the children of one year old, and you will find them to be for New Jersey, 2.64 and New York, 2.53 per cent ; while Ver- mont, Maine and New Hampshire stand respect- ively, 2.03, 2.14 and 1.82. With the infants born during the year, the contrast is equally striking. Here they run as 3.07 and 2.93 in the two middle States, and in three prohibitory States, 2.29, 2.16 and 2. The virility of the race in the latter States is fast sinking under opium, illicit whiskey and tonic bitters, their consumption aided and encouraged by a prohibitory law which only prohibits good manners, good morals, and the progress of the human race. I have thus shown from indisputable records something of the disastrous effects of the so- called prohibition in the States where it has nom- inally prevailed for over a generation. So far as Maine is concerned, the apostles of the doctrine come forward to sustain me. At a meeting of the State Temperance Society, held at Augusta, the deliverance was decided. Joshua H. Nye, a life-long prohibitionist, formerly State Constable for the enforcement of the law and a leading cit- izen of Maine, said the statement of ex-Governor Dingley, that there was no liquor-selling in any towns of Maine, is " a fraud, a delusion and a humbug," and added that liquor-selling is " ter- ribly on the increase all over the State, and every woman and child in the State knows it." He further said—" Drug stores are only gilded rum- hells under another name." As you have heard, the records testify to the truth of Mr. Nye's asser- tions. Recent prohibition candidate for Govern- or, Colonel Eustiss, was equally decided in declaring that the law was not enforced, and boldly charged the party in power, as " in full league and sympathy with the rum-power in the State ". The Rev. Mr. M'Intyre said that the records would show county attorneys, and mu- nicipal judges to be " guilty of complicity of crime with rum-sellers ". " It is quite customary," said he, " for those officials to settle with offenders for $u)°, when under the law they should have been sent to jail ; and sometimes cases are bought off for five or ten dollars." The Rev. Mr. Has- kill said—" for the past ten years rum-selling has been on the increase in Maine ". And speaking of his own town, Damariscotta, he stated there were twenty-five young men there addicted to drinking where there was one, seventeen years ago. There is the picture, painted by artists " to the manner born", and its faithfulness none can truthfully gainsay. Nor does the experience of other States which have tried the same measure fail to confirm the experience of Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire. Michigan, in the West, and Massachusetts and Rhode Island, in the East, tried it long enough to show that it worked injury, and repealed it when it had produced a certain amount of degradation and demoralisation. Iowa and Kansas are making a ludicrous trial of the experiment, and the results would be farcical were they not mischievous. The former of these States does not prohibit the making of whiskey for export, and has within her borders, in active operation, one of the largest distilleries in the world. The convenient way for the advocates of prohibition seems to be, not to meet and explain opposing facts, but to abuse those who present them for careful consideration. Let any one deny the propriety, or rather the power of a prohibitory law, no matter how the record and argument sustain him, and he is at once held up as an advocate of intemperance, and a hireling of the rum power. Such is a very convenient way with which to supplement deficient facts and false reasoning. But that is idle waste of words. A great question cannot be so determined'. Any effective measure for the suppression or lessening the evils of intemperance, should receive support by the good and humane. But when a project, after a long trial, has been found to fail, and worse than fail, by aggravating the evils it was meant to remove, it should be replaced by something that is better calculated to attain the desired end.
