The readers of the Messenger will learn, we doubt not, with sincere regret, that its late Editor and proprietor, THOMAS W. WHITE, is no morel—He diedon the ""th of January, in the ""th year of his age, and is now, we fervently hope, reaping the reward of a virtuous and well-spent life in a better world. On a visit to New-York in September last, he was suddenly, at the supper table of the Astor-House, whilst conversing familiarly with a friend, struck with paralysis, and from that time until the day of his death, hopes were entertained, in the midst of fears, that he might possibly be restored to health and usefulness. These hopes were delusive!—The destroyer came in a most unexpected moment, and summoned our amiable and excellent friend, to another and more enduring state of being. The writer of this brief obituary notice, knew Mr. WHITE long and well. He was in truth, all circumstances considered, a remarkable man. From his childhood he had to struggle with adversity; and, like Franklin, with no other but a self-taught education, he was thrown into the same calling, that of a printer's apprentice, with that illustrious sage. With no pretensions to literature, as a classical or critical profession, he nevertheless possessed a singular tact and discernment which -enabled him to distinguish the true and beautiful from what was false or deformed in taste, or vicious and defective in morals. With a strange disinclination to write fur his own popular Magazine—he curiously combined a happy facility and nervous energy in epistolary correspondence. The writer has seen and received many of his letters, which abounded in vigorous thoughts, clothed in eloquent language ; resembling the unsophisticated strains in which woman—even uneducated woman, will often express her emotions without regard to the mere formularies of style. He wrote from the abundance of a sound heart and generous feelings,—and not having the fear of critical inspection before his eyes,—he was of course less the compositor of art, than the interpreter of nature. But Mr. WHITE'S great forte perhaps, consisted in an indomitable energy and perseverance of character, which overcame all obstacles, in the pursuit of an object, recommended to him by the dictates of the understanding, and the impulses of the heart. Such an object was the establishment of the Southern Literary Mes senger under circumstances peculiarly unpropitious, and which, to most persons, would have seemed almost insurmountable. The North and East had long pre-occupied the ground of periodical literature, and the South was already strown with the wrecks of ill-fated adventure in that unprofitable enterprise. Virginia, with all her power, population and resources—and with all her reputation for statesmanship, forensic ability and unsurpassed oratory, had never been able to sustain a paper exclusively scientific or literary. These weighty considerations would have deterred the majority of men, but had no influence in damping the courage or ardor of our deceased friend. With scanty funds—and with no family or other influence to aid him,—en the contrary, with a host of private advisers to discourage the effort,—he, nevertheless, with the countenance and agency of one or two chosen friends, resolved on the experiment. He made it and was successful !—From small and modest beginnings, the Messenger has gradually planted itself over a wide surface of our country—and without boasting,—if we regard the extent of its patronage or the opinions of the contemporary press, it may be justly ranked in the very first class of similar publications in our country. In the private relations of life, Mr. WHITE was as free from censure as falls to the lot of ordinary mortals. If he was at times irritable, it was more the imperfection of the physical than the moral man. His heart was kind, his friendship ever true and faithful—and his hand "open as day to melting charity." The Reverend Dr. Plainer, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Richmond, who preached his funeral sermon (and an eloquent sermon it was,) said most truly of him, that he scarcely ever knew a man so devoid of malignity of heart. In the knowledge of the writer of this poor tribute,— charity, benevolence and philanthropy, were among the beautiful characteristics of the deceased. He was perfectly forgiving, even to those whom he had just grounds to suppose had injured him,—and if those who so truly forgive, are entitled by Divine Promise to forgiveness themselves, may we not hope every thing of our departed friend in that dread eternity to which he has been called. In the circle of domestic love, Mr. WIRTH'S affections were ardent and powerful. He had been a. widower for some years, but left several daughters, married and single, who will long bemoan the loss of a kind and affectionate father and friend. Fr is understood that the first number of the " Messenger," will be sent forth by its Publisher, as a kind of pioneer, to spy out the land of literary promise, and to report whether the same be fruitful or barren, befort he resolves upon future action. It would he a mortifying discovery, if instead of kindness and good will, he should be repulsed by the coldness and neglect of a Virginia public. Hundreds of similar publications thrive and prosper north of the Potomac, sustained as they are by the liberal hand of patronage. Shall not one be supported in the whole south ? This is a question of great importance;--and one which ought to be answered with sober earnestness by all who set any value upon public character, or who are in the least degree jealous of that individual honor and dignity which is in some measure connected with the honor and dignity of the state. Are we to be doomed forever to a kind of vassalage to our northern neighbors—a dependance for our literary food upon our brethren, whose superiority in all the great points of character,—in valor--eloquence and patriotism, we are no wise disposed to admit? Is it not altogether extraordinary that in this extensive commonwealth, containing a white population of upwards of six hundred thousand souls —a vast deal of agricultural wealth, and innumerable persons of both sexes, who enjoy both lei. sure and affluence—there is not one solitary pc- riouical exclusively literary? What is the cause? We are not willing to borrow our political, religious, or even our agricultural notions from the other side of Mason and Dixon's line, and we generously patronize various domestic journals devoted to those several subjects. Why should we consider the worthy descendants of the pilgrims —of the Hollanders of Manhattan,. or the German adventurers of Pennsylvania, as exclusively entitled to cater for us in our choicest intellectual aliment? Shall it be said that the empire of literature has no geographical boundaries, and that local jealousies ought not to disturb its harmony? To this there is an obvious answer. If we continue to be consumers of northern productions, we shall never ourselves become producers. We may take from them the fabrics of their looms, and give in exchange without loss our agricultural products—but if we depend exclusively upon their literary supplies, it is certain that the spirit of invention among our own sons, will be damped, if not entirely extinguished. The value of a domestic publication of the kind, consists in its being at once accessible to all who choose to venture into the arena as rivals for renown. It imparts the same energy, and exercises the same influence upon mental improvement, that a rail road does upon agricultural labor, when passing by our doors and through our estates. The literary spirit which pervades some portions of New England and the northern cities, would never have existed, at least in the same degree, if the journals and repositories designed to cherish and promote it, had been derived exclusively from London and Edinburgh. In like manner, if we look entirely to Boston, New York or Philadelphia, for that delightful mental enjoyment and recreation, which such publications afford, we must content ourselves with being the readers and admirers of other men's thoughts, and lose all opportunity of stirring up our own minds, and -breathing forth our own meditations. In other words, we must be satisfied to partake of the feast, es it is set before us by our more industrious and enterprising countrymen, and if peradventure, the cookery should not be altogether to our taste, we must, nevertheless, with our characteristic courtesy, be thankful,—and like honest Sancho, "bid God bless the giver." It is not intended to be intimated that the aristarchy of the north and east, cherish any unkind feelings towards the literary claims of the south. Oh no ! In truth, they have no cause whatsoever, either Ibr unkindness or jealousy. If we only continue to patronize their multitudinous magazines, they will pocket our money and praise us as a very generous and chivalrous race ; or if, perchance, some juvenile drama, or poem, or some graver duodecimo of southern manufacture, should find its way to the seats of learning and criticism beyond the Susquehanna., it is an even chance, that in order to preserve the monopoly of the southern market, they will dole out to us a modicum of praise, and render some faint tribute to rising merit. Without therefore intending any thing invidious, or without cherishing any unkind or unmanly sentiment towards our political confederates, we ought forthwith to buckle on our armour, and assert our mental independence. All their own lofty and generous spirits will approve the resolution, and be among the first to welcome the dawn of a brighter era in a region of comparative twilight. Their Irvings and Pauldings, their Everette and Neals, their Coopers and Verplancks, their Kennedys and Flints, their FIallecks and Bryants, their Sedgewicks and Sigourneys, will rejoice in the emancipation of the south, from the shackles which either indolence, indifference, or the love of pleasure, have imposed upon us. We are too old, and ought to be too proud to lag behind even some of our younger sisters, in the cultivation of one of the most attractive departments of human knowledge. It is folly to boast of political ascendancy, of moral influence, of professional eminence, or unrivalled oratory, when, in all the Corinthian graces which adorn the structure of mind, we are lamentably deficient. It is worse than folly to talk of this " ancient and unterrified commonwealth"—if we suffer ourselves to be ter-rd at the idea of supporting one poor periodical, devoted to letters and mental improvement. It would be an indelible reproach to us, that whilst we waste so many thousands annually in luxury—whilst we squander our means in expensive tours of recreation and pleasure,—and even impoverish our resources in indulgences too gross to be mentioned—we should be unwilling to contribute a single mite towards building up a character of our own, and providing the means of imbodying and concentrating the neglected genius of our country. Let the hundreds of our gifted sons, therefore, who have talents and acquirements, come forth to this work of patriotism, with a firm resolution to persevere until victory is achieved. Let them dismiss their apprehensions,—that because as yet.they are unpractised in composition—and the highway to literary eminence is already thronged with competitors—that, therefore, the most vigorous effort will be vanquished in the contest. In the race for political or professional distinction, who is influenced by such timid suggestions? In that noble strife, which animates southern bosoms to control by the magic of oratory the passions of the multitude, or in a more learned arena " the applause of listening senates to command"—who ever heard of discouragements and difficulties sufficient to chill their ardor, or restrain their aspirations? And yet is it less difficult to attain the prize of eloquence—to rival the fame of a Henry, or a Wirt, than to achieve the task of vigorous and graceful composition? To our lovely and accomplished countrywomen, may not a successful appeal be also addressed, to lend their aid in this meritorious task. Their influence upon the happiness and destiny of society, is so extensively felt and acknowledged, that to dwell upon its various bearings and relations, would be altogether superfluous. It is to the watchful care of a mother's love, that those first principles of moral wisdom are implanted in childhood, which ripen into the blossoms and fruit of maturer years; and it is to the reproving virtues and refining tenderness of the sex, through all its mutations, from blooming sixteen to the matronly grace of forty—that man is indebted for all that is soft, and for much that is noble and wise, in his own character. It is true that there is another side to this picture. If a woman's education has itself been neglected; if she has been trained up in the paths of folly and vanity—and been taught to ornament the casket in preference to the celestial jewel which it contains,—she will neither be a fit companion for the sterner sex, nor be qualified to assume the divine responsibility of maternal instruction. To diffuse therefore not only the benefits of moral but intellectual culture, among those whom heaven has given to restore in part the blessings of a lost Eden—to withdraw their minds from vain and unprofitable pursuits—to teach them to emulate the distinguished names of their own sex, who have given lustre to literature, and scattered sweets in the paths of science—is a duty not only of paramount importance on our part, but claims the united and cordial support of the fair and interesting objects of our care. Let no one therefore presume to disparage this humble effort to redeem our country's escutcheon from the reproach which has been cast upon it. Let the miser open his purse—the prodigal save a pittance from his health-wasting and mind-de- stroying expenditures—the lawyer and physician, spare a little from their fees—the merchant and mechanic, from their speculations and labor—and the man of fortune, devote a part, a very small part of his abundance, towards the creation of a new era in the annals of this blessed Old Dominion. It may possibly be the means of effecting a salutary reform in public taste and individual habits; of overcoming that tendency to mental repose and luxurious indulgence supposed to be peculiar to southern latitudes; and of awakening a spirit of inquiry and a zeal for improvement, which cannot fail ultimately to exalt and adorn society.	H. In order to recommend myself and the article, which, to use the fashionable phraseology, is now being prepared for the Messenger, to the favorable consideration of its readers, I beg leave to premise that I am a gentleman of good education and respectable talents—that I am in circumstances of ease and leisure, and what is a still stronger recommendation at the present alarming crisis, I am both from conviction and expediency, a decided anti-abolitionist. You must know, Mr Editor, that besides having been afflicted all my life with that rabid propensity, which in classical dialect is called cacoethes scribendi, I have been troubled with another inconvenient and rather expensive malady, which I shall call the cacoethes perigrinantis, by which I mean, that about the time of the dog-days I am generally beset by an unconquerable desire for locomotion, an irresistible propensity to change my place of abode and all its multiform incidents and relations, and to launch forth as it were into a new creation—to look abroad upon Nature and Nature's works, and to contemplate my fellow-worms in some of their new antics and attitudes. Accordingly, during the late summer, attracted by the fame of the Virginia Springs and the salubrious region in which they lie, I deposited my frame (none of the smallest) in one of those republican vehicles called a mail coach, a true and happy invention by the way, for bringing discordant spirits into close communion with one another—an admirable machine for levelling all artificial distinctions—a kind of itinerant temple where Patrician and Plebeian, both masculine and feminine, where mountebank and statesman, puritan and profligate, and all the moods and genders of character may nestle together and worship at the same altar of democracy. But for certain drawbacks and inconveniences which will readily suggest themselves to the reader—such as the dangers of dislocation and fracture, and sundry annoyances too tedious to mention—a man of observation like myself would find it as agreeable to spend his summers in a stage coach as any where else. It is a kind of moral Kaleidescope, where at every turn some new combination or some curious variety in human character is presented to the eye. It above all imparts a refreshing hilarity to the spirits, which are too apt to stagnate when chained down to one solitary spot on the earth's surface. But this is a digression. Having deposited myself in the vehicle as before mentioned, I shall not entertain the reader as is the custom with some of the more learned fraternity of tourists, by long and elaborate details of the several points of arrival and departure—by curious and profound dissertations upon the philosophy of a coach wheel revolving upon its axis—nor by beautiful and extatic bursts about the blue skies and verdant meadows and lofty forests. Suffice it to say, that I found myself on the evening of an August day, on the summit of the Warm Spring Mountain which overlooks the first thermal fountain in the Pilgrim's path to Hygcia. Here I commence my adventures. This is the starting point of my story, and it is henceforth of course that I shall expect my gentle reader to sharpen his attentive faculty—and as Mark Anthony said to his countrymen at Caesar's funeral, "lend me his ears." Gently and by slow degrees had we surmounted the ascent of this celebrated mountain, (celebrated at least in the Old Dominion and by all travellers to the Springs,) and now we were about to pass down into the valley of the warm waters. Kind reader, if your steps have never led you thither, I must inform you that the descent on the western side is most exceedingly and unaccommodatingly abrupt. The pilot, however, alias driver, who in this instance at least entertained some regard for his living freight, used the precaution of locking, to speak technically, or rather of shoeing one of his hinder wheels—but no sooner had the yet untired steeds commenced their downward course, (the coach with its ton weight at least of flesh and bone rapidly following,) than spang went the lock chain asunder! and away flew the mettlesome animals as fast as their heels would carry them. Now, we plunged onward as if driving through the mountain forest,— then, suddenly turning, rolled at some distance on the margin of a frightful precipice, each moment expecting to be dashed headlong down its angry side. Here gliding as swiftly as an arrow over a tolerably smooth surface, and there jolting and rattling over some rocky gutter, which communicated its jarring vibration to each sensitive nerve—and then what confusion and consternation within ! There was my unlucky self, for example, tossed to and fro, in a manner which reminded me of poor Sancho in the memorable blanket scene. First thrown in one direction, I found one of my elbows actually goring the side of a stout nullifier from the Palmetto State—then hurled to the opposite point of the compass by another pitch of the coach, I found myself in the act of suffocating a little New Yorker, whom I took to be an abolitionist. Next, by another cross movement, I detected myself almost in the lap of a fat middle aged lady, who weighed at least thirty pounds more than myself, and presently I came almost in contact with the lips of a rosy checked damsel of seventeen, who was about to make her debut at the White Sulphur. And then what a crowding and jostling of knees, and what a thumping and bruising of shins ! The ladies screamed—the nullifier roared and threatened, and the Little Manhattaner protested that in case of any serious accident to the party, the coroner's inquest would be murder in the first degree against both the driver and proprietor. As for me, I confess that my thoughts were multitudinous and not very delightful. First I thought of Capt. John Gilpin, and wished most heartily that I might come off as well as that renowned officer of the London militia—then I thought of that silly old fellow Phoebus, who from paternal weakness alone committed the reins of his golden chariot to a foolish boy, and lastly I was harrowed in imagination at the terrible idea of Ixion revolving forever on his infernal wheel. Neither did I forget that classical sentence which flashed across my memory, and which I fear is too true in more senses than that in which the poet used it- lacilis	Avcrni, &c. Fortunately, however, the genius of terror passed over us without exacting any of the usual sacrifices of broken bones and dislocated limbs, and in a short time our Palinurus (who to do him the justice performed his to perform quarantine in the neighborhood. here then, part handsomely) landed us in front of the spacious said I to myself; have I at last reached the goal of my portico of the Warm Spring Hotel.	desires! This is the spot where so many thousands are Every person in the world (I mean that portion of sighing to come without being gratified—where so many the world which goes to the Virginia Springs,) who love sick city nymphs and whiskered beaux are panting knows any thing of the great hotel at which we stop to try their luck in the wheel of life's lottery. What a ped—knows that it is kept by Col. Fry—one of the lucky dog am I to have gained admittance into this re- most polite, accommodating and facetious landlords that gion of delight ! ever lived from the time of "Mine Host of the Garter"	I continued to soliloquize in this rapturous strain, un- down to the present day. He will not only give you til Blackamore (it was night fall on my arrival) conthe best which his ample house affords, but he is always ducted me to my chamber,—where, being somewhat ready to say a good thing with a good grace, in order, fatigued, I proposed to retire at an early hour and to I suppose, to put his guests in the most comfortable rise with the morning sun, renovated and refreshed for humor imaginable. The visitors to the Springs how all the countless enjoyments of the next day. The seever never remain long at the Colonel's Caravansera at rene current of my thoughts was, to be sure, somewhat the commencement of the season. Those who come ruffled, when on reaching my apartment I found it to from the north and east generally give "mine host" a be a quadrangle of about eight feet dimensions, with a passing salutation attended by a stout promise to de cot and mattress on each side of the door arranged for vour his substance as they return from their merry cir two lodgers. A couple of chairs, a wash stand, and a cuit. He on the other hand is not backward in hasten fractured mirror about the size of the Jack of Spades, ing their return somewhat after the following manner. constituted the sum total of the furniture. "My worthy "After being well charged, gentlemen, with Calwell's descendant of Ethiop !" I exclaimed, "here is some missulphur—well salted by Erskine and Caruthers—your take! Do you take a gentleman of my size and respecpulsations equalized—and your expectations realized by tability into a room not larger than a closet? No fire Burke—your palates feasted and sweetened at the bub either to warm my limbs in the chilly night air of these bling fountain of friend Rogers—and your carcases boiled mountains ? I will forthwith complain to the Prime and sweated by Dr. Goode—you may then safely re Minister !" turn and be fried under my special direction." All this	" Lod maser," answered Syphax, or Juba or Jugur- terrible process it seems I was destined to undergo, and tha, (I forget his name) "complaining will do no more accordingly I gave my valedictory blessing to the Co good than saying nothing at all. Take a nigger's adlonel, who take him for all in all is "a fellow of infinite vice and keep quiet—for you ought to remember, sir, jest and most excellent humor." Being again reconciled that mass Calwell don't charge not a cent for board nor to my mail coach, notwithstanding recent alarms, I soon lodging." found myself alighted in the spacious lawn of the far-	" Thou son of old Sycorax I" I replied fiercely, " do famed White Sulphur Springs. All who visit the mine you take me for a strolling mendicant? I will teach you ral region are bound by a law more absolute than that and your master too, and his Grand Vizier to boot, that of gravitation to wend to this favorite spot. It is the [ expect to pay for my accommodations, and must theregreat magnet which alike attracts the way worn vale (bre have them to my taste." tudinarian and the votary of fashion. Imagination de	"You're a high lamed gentleman," said old Cat; picts it as the very elysium of hope and the paradise of (I think Cato was the name) "but nigger speaks the enjoyment! It is the .filmacks of watering places, where truth for all that. Mass Calwell not charge a four all the dignitaries of the land—the learned and unlearn pence ha'-penny for eating and sleeping, but he charge ed—the young, the gay and the beautiful, submit to hu eight dollars a week for use of de water." miliation and sacrifice, in order to gain admission. The	Notwithstanding that I was upon the verge of per- multitudes who thronged the porches of the pool of Beth mitting the organ of my destructiveness to preponderate seda, looked not with more anxiety for the coming of over that of my benevolence, I could not forbear smiling the angel who troubled the waters, than do the hun at the old negro's logic. "Eight dollars a week for dreds who crowd around King Calwell's throne, await water!" exclaimed I—" A fellow might drink his pint the approving smile (the Introito) of his principal Se a day of the very best London particular for one half cretary of State. Woe be unto the luckless wight of that sum—Well, sir, we will try this precious elixir who is found at a crisis of pressure, in a public convey to-morrow morning. In the meantime, thou worthy ance,—who does not bring along with him a flaming descendant of Ham, I shall be inexpressibly obliged to equipage and attendants ; he is laid on the shelf, or to you if you will lead me down to the drawing room, in use the customary phrase, is turned off with the same order that I may warm these wearied and rheumatic sangfroid with which a Netherlander smokes his pipe, or limbs before retiring to rest." a Westerner shoots his rifle. To me, however, the	"Drawing room, sir," said old Cato, "I believe there stars were propitious, and when the little Grand Vizier is no such thing in the whole establishment. If folks tipt me the nod of assent, I followed the guide to my want warming here they must go to mass Plumb's bar dormitory with as light a ')eart and elastic a step as if room, which is way down in the cellar." I had been appointed an ambassador with full powers.	" Bar room, sir!—Bar room I retorted, " can it be What became of my stage companions I did not stop possible that men, rational men, can abandon the Spring to inquire. I was indeed so much elated with my own —nature's own sweet medicinal compound, for those good fortune that for once I forgot my usual benevo deleterious mixtures—those pernicious products of the lence, and it was not until the next morning that I corrupt art of distillation ?" " forgot however that Cato learned that a due proportion of them. were sentenced had not entered into all the elaborate views and recon- VOL. ".-"" nte reasonings of the Temperance Society—and I forthwith checked the rein of my imagination. I found that the best that I could do under all circumstances, was to betake myself to rest, and although I must confess that I had descended some few rounds on that golden ladder, which like Jacob's of old, I verily believed had led to the seventh heaven,—I consoled myself with the hope that to-morrow—delightful to-morrow—would spread a new and brighter coloring over my prospects. Cato being dismissed, I retired and slept soundly for the space of two hours at least ; at the expiration of which time, I was suddenly startled by a noise immediately underneath me, which to my classical fancy seemed to resemble the shrieks of the ancient Bacchm, the Priestesses of the Vine-loving God. Let that however pass ! There was a mixture of music in it, or of something intended for music, which kept me in a tolerable humor and smoothed over those porcupine points which began to shoot forth at the unpleasant disturbance to my repose. The mystery was soon solved. Cato by direction of the Prime Minister, had placed me directly over the ball room—a most confounded location to be sure for a man fond of sleep—but still I thought that every one was bound to make some sacrifice in order to promote the enjoyments of others. "Tired nature's sweet restorer," lulled me once more into oblivion as soon as the clamor and screeching (for music it was not) had somewhat subsided. Again had the leaden God touched me with his wand, and again were my slumbers invaded by the arrival of my fellow lodger at midnight. I began to descend a few more rounds on my golden ladder. I thought of Sancho's exclamation, "Blessed is the man who first invented sleep f"--but what, thought I, is the invention worth if a man cannot use it even in this free country. Morning at last dawned—but oh ! what a morning ? The rain fell in torrents—and the wind came whistling down the mountain hollows as if old /Eolus had resolved that his voice should be distirctly heard and his strength clearly understood. What was I to do? To walk abroad was impossible--so I even resolved to lay quietly ensconced-in my cot, hard as it was, until my fellow lodger, who was one of the Saturnine breed, should take his departure, and the merry bell should invite me to breakfast. My naturally sweet temper bad become a little soured at my various discomforts—but my appetite was keen, and I thought with the immortal dramatist, that "when the veins are unfilled, we are neither apt to give nor forgive." -When the hour arrived, I hastened with the aid of umbrella and cloak to the banquetting hall. The crowd had assembled in the long portico awaiting the signal of admission. A few only of the fairer part of creation were interspersed, and they—were any thing but fair. I presumed that, the more delicate and fragile of the sex would not encounter " the peltings of the pitiless storm." The doors being opened, the multitude rushed in. What a resistless force thought I, is caused by the concurrent movement of """ human appetites about to engage at the breakfast table. It was a new discovery in mechanical philosophy, and I felt confident that the momentum was at least equal to a hundred horse power. "Body of Bacchus!" as the Italians say, what a furious set-on there was! I sat at one end o! the table in silent consternation ! At length I ventured to ask cne waiter for a hot cup of coffee—of another civilly requested a chop—and a third I respectfully solicited to hand me a roll. I might as well have addressed my language to the door post. The menials rushed by me like a whirlwind. It seems, as I afterwards learned, that every mother's son of them had been bribed to wait on particular gentlemen ; and if I had screamed at them loud enough to rupture a blood vessel, the knaves would have been as deaf as adders. At length I addressed myself to a juvenile looking man who 'e as sitting not far to my right, and who though young in years was evidently a veteran in that sublime science called Number One; for I perceived that by a good understanding with the members of the Kitchen Cabinet and the black Alguazils of the breakfasting room, he had gathered around him as many tit-bits as would have feasted a London Alderman. "Pray sir," said I, "will you be so kind as to help me to one of those extra dishes in your vicinity !" The youngster looked at me with perfect amazement. " might as well have asked him for one of his wisdom teeth ! By the by, I am not certain that he had cut either of them,--at all events I was confident of one thing, and that was, that the youth had never graduated in good manners. So I let him pass. But why relate my melancholy and fruitless efforts and my innumerable rebuffs at the table. There I had to sit a full three quarters of an hour at least, before my longing appetite was appeased. Regaled it was not,—unless a cold mutton chop which retained the flavor of the wool, and a cup of decoction compounded by the rule of three grains of coffee to a gallon of water—can be mid to constitute the highest felicity of eating. I arose from the table and descended a few more rounds on my gilded ladder of hope. What was I to do? The rain continued to fall in such torrents that Neptune himself could not have surpassed them, had he held his throne in the clouds. Cato had informed me the over night that there was no drawing room—and I was cold —my limbs were shivering. I resolved to visit the subterranean regions of the bar room and post office. There, to my unutterable grief, I found groups of individuals gathered together in such motley disorder, and withal forming so complete a blockade to every avenue approaching the fire—that I stood like a statue of despair. A cluster on my right were discoursing in grandiloquent style on the recent discoveries in the moon—another on my left were discussing the attempted assassination of the King of the French—a third were denouncing the whole army of abolitionists and lamenting that Tappan and Thompson did not find it convenient to visit the White Sulphur Springs—a fourth were denouncing the vengeance of Judge Lynch against the Chevaliers D'Industrie—angliee black legs,--a fifth were pouring a volley of exterminating epithets upon the head of Amos Kendall and the Little Magician; and a sixth, did not even spare his majesty King CalwelI himself and his minister of the home department, for putting them in Fly Row to be devoured by those cantackerous* vermin, the fleas. I forgot that there was a seventh circle standing near Mr. Plumb's cabinet—who were very intently engaged at the early hour of ten—not in discussing domestic or foreign politics—lunar discoveries or abolition--but with all the ardor which distinguished the disputants on those several topics, * See Mr. Forsyth's Speech in the United States Senate.
