CHAPTER IV. YELLOW-BIRD, OR AMERICAN GOLD-FINCH.- Fringilla tristis. The Thistle, or Lettuce-bird, as he is sometimes called, is one of our most cheerful and light-hearted songsters. Joyous amidst the intense severity of the winter, and equally gay beneath the scorching suns of our almost tropical summer, he flits from field to field, and wood to wood, in company with his merry companions, a lovely emblem of intense happiness! When on the wing, like the far, faint and finely-drawn cadence of an /Eolian harp, his notes of conversation are constantly heard, and while sitting on some lowly thistle or devoted lettuce stalk, he talks with a low, sweet, liquid voice to his more humble and less noticed mate. In the cage, for which he is readily caught by means of trap-cages, he soon becomes as familiar as the Canary or English Goldfinch, and in that situation his musical notes certainly rival, and are scarcely surpassed by the sonorous whistle and trill of the former bird. His song is at times gradually elevated, and then softened in the most exquisite manner, bursting in one instant into overpowering melody, in the next dying away in a fairy-like strain, which seems as if lost in the distance; then reviving, it again bursts forth with redoubled strength and energy, and strikes at once into the loudest fife of the before-mentioned songster. In confinement, his cage should be hung outside of the window every sunny day, as sun-light and fresh air are necessary to the health and well being of this active little bird. He should likewise be well supplied with gravel, and a saucer of water kept constantly in his cage, as he is especially fond of bathing. The Yellow-bird is much attached to rich and oily seeds, and should be reared upon yellow, canary, millet and hemp, with occasionally a little sun-flower and lettuce-seed, which are always an excellent addition to their fare. He is likewise very fond of the leaves of the garden-beet, lettuces and cabbages, together with chick-weed, which can be obtained at all seasons, and also of ripe fruits, such as apples and pears. He will readily, by observing the rules before laid down, breed in confinement, and would produce, if associated with the Canary-finch, mules of the most valuable character, both as regards plumage and song. The male Gold-finch is of a brilliant lemon-yellow, with the crown of the head and the wings and tail of a glossy raven black; the two latter partially edged with white. These birds may readily be obtained in the markets in the spring, where they are brought in trap-cages, and sell as low as twenty-five cents per pair. CARDINAL GROSBEAK, OR RED-BIRD.—Cardinalis Virginianus. THIS truly magnificent songster, whose loud and martial song and brilliant beauty of plumage alike attract our admiration, is a native of this continent, and is found in its favourite localities in all parts of the country, from New York to Florida. His chief haunts are in low watery thickets, or amid the swampy woods that margin the waters of our rivers and small inland streams, among which he builds his nest. They are never found in any situation in considerable numbers, but at most in small families of five to seven, consisting of the young birds of the preceding spring and their parents. In the breeding season, like all others of the Finch tribe, they are perfectly solitary. The Virginian Nightingale, as he is styled in England and in some parts of the Southern States, is nearly the size of the Robin, and of a brilliant scarlet, which is much brighter upon its breast and belly. His head is ornamented with a lofty crest, which is raised or depressed at pleasure, while his; bill, which is large and powerful, is a soft and beautiful coral-red. The only colour on his person differing from the rest, and which is thrown into strong relief by the brilliancy of his other plumage, is a circle of deep black passing completely round his head at the base of the bill. His eye is very expressive and of a dark hazel, while his form is perfect and graceful to a degree. The song of the Cardinal, which even in confinement is continued for six or eight months in the year, is no less striking than his plumage, being composed of a clear, loud and mellow whistle, varying in cadence, and given without intermission for a considerable length of time, and closely resembling the tones of the human voice. This, though the delivery is original and striking, is composed partially of the notes of other birds, which are remodelled in so exquisite a manner, and so beautifully executed, that it seems almost impossible to determine to whom they originally belonged. The lay of the Red-bird is, however, possessed of a greater charm—a rare and delicate pathos, enlivened by the most brilliant and soothing touches known to the feathered tribe. This change seems the more astonishing, when we reflect that his voice may be heard on a clear morning, with the greatest ease, at the distance of a mile. In confinement, for which he is taken by means of trap-cages, the Cardinal Grosbeak possesses all the sociability and gentleness of his race, becoming in a short time as tame as a domesticated Canary. Here he is highly esteemed and ranks next to the Mocking-bird, than whom he is far more beautiful, for power of song, In retaining him in a cage, he should be kept apart from the society of Canaries, as they, struck with the character of his notes, entirely lose their own in the desire of imitation. The Red-bird is very hardy, and may be kept in a room without fire all winter, without the slightest danger. He should be hung out, and indulged with sun and air on all possible occasions during winter, and in the summer season, with the exception of stormy weather, remain permanently in the open air. They will breed in confinement if treated like the Canary; but require a very large cage, or a small room, where they must be very seldom disturbed during the day, observing to supply them with food and water after their retiring to rest. This is, however, unnecessary trouble, as they may be readily obtained in our principal markets during winter, where they are constantly exposed for sale, at the low price of one to two dollars each. Their diseases, which are similar to the Canary, though they are seldom taken sick, may be treated in the same manner. They live to a great age; a specimen being preserved in the Philadelphia Mu- seum collection which was kept by a member of the Peale family for twenty-one years, and which was probably three or four years old when first obtained. They should be fed on Canary-seed, rough or unhulled rice, in which they delight, millet-seed, diversified at times with a little finely cracked corn, buckwheat and wheat; and occasionally, during the severity of winter, with a little hemp-seed. In the use of the latter, especially in the autumn months, great care should be taken; as the Red-bird has a tendency to become very gross, and will oftentimes die from an accumulation of fat round the wind-pipe. When he is thus affected, it may be perceived by his uttering at intervals a wheezing sound. He should then have plenty of coarse brown gravel, which should indeed at all times be kept in his cage, and fed for a few days entirely upon rape-seed, and after a week or so, upon "rough rice" and corn. This will effect a cure. A large pan of water should be constantly kept in the cage, which last should be large and roomy, to allow him to bathe frequently; an amusement for which he has a great predilection. PART IV. GROSBEAKS. Coccothraustes. CHAPTER I. ROSE-BREASTED GROSBEAK.—Coccothraustes ludovicianus. Tins very rare and exquisitely plumaged bird, is another of the many beautiful inhabitants of the western continent, and is equally celebrated for the sweetness of his warbling, his rareness, and the singular variegation of his plumage. He is like the Tanager, (Tanagra rubra,) a summer visitant, and one that is little known except to enterprising and persevering naturalists. His size is nearly that of the Robin, and his general character black, with the wings and outer tail feathers beautifully margined with white. His breast is of a brilliant rose-carmine colour, which passes in the shape of a cone nearly down to the vent; and the entirety of the inner wing-coverts is of a beautiful bright rose.' The bill is of a soft flesh-white. The female is of a dusky colour; but, as she is worthless for song, need not be fully described. His song, which is continued in clear weather during the whole of the day, is melodious and brilliant beyond description, and is given in a warbling manner, now loud, clear and distinct, then falling into the most tender, low and pathetic sweetness, again changing into the most empassioned sprightliness, and abounding in all the tender, mild and touching tones of the English Nightingale. In fact, with the single exception of our Mocking-bird. he is the prince of songsters. In the cage, where he is only occasionally met with, he is one of the most delicious of songsters, thriving as well and even better than the Cardinal Grosbeak, and occasioning much less trouble. His food is all the usual kinds of bird-seed, which may be varied during their season, with the different sorts of berries to be obtained in our markets. He is particularly fond of those of the "sour gum," which abound in the woods in the neighbourhood of the city. The Rose-breasted Grosbeak requires to be kept in a warm and airy stove-room during winter. "" PART V. PURPLE FINCHEs.—Erythrospizw. CHAPTER I. PURPLE FINCH, OR AMERICAN LINNET.— Erythrospiza purpurea. THIS beautiful, large and cheerful songster, is also a native resident, though but -little known as a cage-bird in this section of country. The colour of the male is a rich dark crimson, which is deepest on the upper part of thd body, and his tail and wings are of a dusky brown. In the Eastern States the Linnet, as he is there called, is a great favourite as a song-bird, and brings very high prices. He is caught in the spring and fall in trap-cages. His song, which strongly resembles in sweetness and strength the delicious notes of our Red-eyed Vireo, or Greenlet, (Vireo olivaceous,) is given in a wild state from the summits of the tallest tulip-poplar trees,• (Liriodendron tulipifera,) where the bird is most commonly seen. It is there poured forth for successive hours, without any faltering, and scarcely a moment's intermission for rest. When caged in the same room with a Canary, the Purple Finch's musical powers so far transcend that songster, that a comparison would be odious to our exquisite bird. In the cage he may be given all the seeds adapted for the Canary, with the addition of sun-flower and hemp in the fall and winter season, and plenty of gravel and water. He is quite hardy. BOOK II. OMNIVOROUS BIRDS. Omnivores. CHAPTER I. Of the general characteristics of Omnivorous Birds. THIS common and well known order comprises in its range those birds with whom we are every day familiar. Their habits and manners differ more, and their appearances as regards plumage and size are more varied than those of any other race of the feathered tribe. Some suspend their nests by threads from limbs, where they are subject to the sport of every wind, others secure them firmly between forks, and others again rest them on the ground amid the shelter of bushes, or in tussocks Of long, rank grass. Some are familiar as household words, seeking out the society of . man, while others are shy and suspicious, living in the thickest woods, and avoiding our habitations with an apparent semi-reasoning power, as if conscious of the dangers that awaited them. Omnivorous birds are gregarious in their habits, with the single exception of the breeding season, when some in single pairs seek solitary situations, while others build their nests in sociable connection, and form a common community for each other's protection. Their plumage, with some exceptions, is noted for its beauty or singularity, and their song is generally more remarkable for its loudness and power, than for any softness or delicacy of execution. Many of this order possess the power of mimicry to a considerable degree, and can readily be taught to articulate words, and even lengthy sentences. When in confinement, they soon be-""* come thoroughly domesticated and familiar, and from their character, easily supplied with food, which in a wild state is composed of seeds of all kinds, insects, worms, and frequently grain and fruits. DIVISION I. FOREIGN BIRDS. PART I. STARLINGS.—Sturni. CHAPTER I. EUROPEAN STARLING.—SiUMUS vulgaris. THE Starling, one of the most common and numerous residents of England, and indeed all Europe, is frequently brought to this country, where he is highly esteemed as a cage-bird, for his excellent qualities, and sold for a high price. The colour of the male bird is a deep black, with rich metallic reflections, varying from golden-green to deep violet and dark purple, constantiy changing in appearance as the bird moves its position. The whole body is likewise beautifully dropped, or mottled with triangular starlike spots, which are white on the breast of the bird and cream-coloured on the back. The bill is a bright yellow, the eyes hazel, and the legs either yellow or brown. In a wild state the Starling is very lively, whistling and chattering constantly, and then somewhat resembles in habits and manners our Red-winged Blackbird, .(Icterus prxdatorius.) There he associates not only with his own kind, but with many other varieties of birds. Changing as it were his character in their society, he drops his own peculiar note and with a ready association to circumstances, whistles with the Plover, chatters with the Jack-daw, caws with the Crow and screams with the Sea-fowl. In the cage, his character is the same, with an equally great fondness for imita- tion. Here he may be easily taught to repeat with exactness short phrases, and even whole sentences; to warble tunes; and to do many other semi-reasoning feats. His song is likewise better in this situation than it is in his native fields or woods. His treatment may be the same as that prescribed for our Red-wing in every particular. Giving to him grain, berries, seeds and cherries, when the last are in season, for he is remarkably fond of them. PART II. ORIOLEs.—Icterii. CHAPTER I. ICTERIC ORIOLE, OR TROUPIAL. GOLDEN-WINGED ORIOLE.—/CierUS THE Icteric, which so closely resembles the Golden-winged Oriole of South America, is a native of the East Indies, one half larger in size and rather more brilliant in plumage than his brother, the Baltimore-bird of this country. He possesses a greater power, though not the same sweetness of song as the last. The treatment both of this and the Golden-winged Oriole, which although a distinct species, is often mistaken for, and bought as the Troupial, must be the same as that prescribed for our lovely species. He will likewise eat any kind of ripe fruits and berries, which may be given to him in their respective seasons. He is wholly omnivorous. The Orioles require to be kept very warm during the winter season, to have plenty of cage room, and to be constantly supplied with water. PART III. CROws.--Corvi. CHAPTER I. EUROPEAN JACK-DAW.—COMUS monedula. Where the ruined turrets of the old castellated buildings of England stand, still mighty in decay, and beneath the parapets of the Gothic churches and monasteries, as it were the sole monarch of those homes of bygone chivalry and papal pride, the Jack-daw sits and builds his nest, while his hoarse chatter to his hundred companions takes the place of the trumpet-tone of the knight, the gay laugh and jest of chivalric noblemen and lovely demoiselles, the cry of the falconer as his winged charge mounted high in the air in pursuit of the lordly Heron, or the holy hymn of the priest and the chaunt of the grey vestured and shaven monk at the altar of the MOST HIGH. These have passed away. Knight and noble, lady and page, prior and priest, great and low, all, all have sank into the grave, and none wot now of theii transient existence. Yet, hovering amid the same scenes, the Jack-daw still lives and moves the lord of all, while the prouder and nobler of mortality are forgotten. The Jack-daw, though living in such localities, and somewhat unsocial in his habits, from the knowledge that man is not one to trust, a knowledge which only in the human breast is acquired after many years of manly experience in the world, is still a favourite with the farmers and peasantry of his native land. There, habited in his raven suit, with a plain ash-grey mark upon the hind part of his head, he strolls from field to field and wood to wood, as much like one of the wandering Gitani in habit as any of the feathered race can be. On the old tower of Dundee, in Scotland, full one hundred and fifty feet above the level of the earth, and beneath the decaying parapets, numbers of these birds even now build their nests, and even here they were once pursued by the adventurous hand and cupidity of man; The hero of this dauntless and dangerous feat, was one Murray, a barber of the old town, who, with a companion, undertook to rob the Daws' nests. These could not be reached from above, and the brave fellow creeping through one of the slits, lowered himself gradually down with one hand; he was still a few feet from his object, when he called to his companion to reach him his bonnet and hold tight to it, while he let himself by this means the further length of his and his companion's arm. He did so; and now, suspended between heaven and earth, with only his and his friend's hold on that frail article, he ba- lanced himself with his feet against the perpendicular wall, and proceeded to fill the bonnet above him with the young birds. While in this perilous situation, his companion asked "how many young are in the nest?" "Five," was the answer. "I must have three of them." "You shall have no such thing," was Murray's determined response: "I have all the risk, and you shall have but two." "Well! then I will let go the bonnet." "If you do," said the other," you shall have none of the spoil!" His companion at last consented to the arrangement, and the intrepid youth soon stood in safety with his prey upon the lofty summit of the old castle. In a wild state the food of the Daw is insects, grain and fruit; but in confinement he will eat almost any thing, and may be treated like the Crow, or Magpie. He is easily tamed, may be taught to articulate words and sentences, and become the most docile of birds. For this purpose he must be raised from the nest. He is only occasionally brought to this country, where his price varies from three to five dollars. PART IV. JAYS.—Garruli. CHAPTER I. EUROPEAN JAY.—Garrulus glandarius. AMONG the whole imported tribe of birds who are annually brought to our shores, the European Jay stands conspicuous for his varied talents and the neatness and indeed beauty of his plumage, of which some idea may be formed, by those unacquainted with the bird, from the following concise description. His bill is black, and his eyes white. His head is crested; but not so much so as our Jay, or our Cardinal-bird. The feathers which compose this ornament are white, striped with black; and the whole may be erected or depressed at the plea- " sure of the bird. The body of the Jay is a rich cinnamon colour, which is lighter upon the breast than it is on the back. The wings are beautifully marked with a patch of brilliant azure, barred with black. In a wild state, where he has the entirety of the habits of our still lovelier-looking species, his food is• acorns, seeds, nuts, fruits and the eggs and young of other birds, of which he is immoderately fond, and for which cannibal-like propensity he is shot down on every occasion by the game-keeper without mercy. In domestication he may be treated like the before-mentioned bird. In the cage, like the rest of his order, he is very familiar and docile, and will learn sentences with the greatest ease. His song, however, abounds more in loudness and shrillness than it does in sweetness or delicacy of tone; but his talent for imitating the louder-voiced birds and animals, is striking and peculiar; consisting generally in close mimicry of the bleating of cattle, the calls of the domestic fowls, the neighing of horses and the screaming of geese. One of these birds was known to imitate the sound of a saw so closely, that though it was on a Sunday, listeners could hardly be persuaded that his innocent owner had not a carpenter at work in his dwelling. Another bird had learned to hound a dog upon cattle by whistling to him and calling him by name; but he suffered severely for his mischievous propensity. On one occasion the dog, on a frosty-day, impelled by the calls of the Jay, pursued a cow that was big with young, and the poor animal fell upon the ice and was severely hurt. Her owner immediately prosecuted the owner of the bird for keeping a nuisance, and the poor songster was compelled to be killed. In the pronunciation of words, the Jay always succeeds best, as indeed do all birds with those in which the letter R is most frequent. His prices vary in this country from ten to twenty dollars. He is very hardy in habit, and will endure considerable cold without injury. DIVISION II. NATIVE BIRDS. PART I. AMERICAN STARLINGS.—StUrnellWor CHAPTER I. • AMERICAN STARLING, OR MEADOW-LARK.— Sturnella ludoviciana. THE first of this order, which we shall touch upon, is the Meadow-lark, a well known resident of old fields and marshy meadows, at all seasons of the year, in every section of the union. We give his description, because we have occasionally met with a specimen in the cage, where he is valuable for his beauty of plumage and the low and sweet, though melancholy character of his song, which is given during a considerable portion of the day, and is, if any thing, rather monotonous. The colours of this bird are plain, but varied so much in their disposition as to give him considerable beauty. The belly and throat of the Lark are a bright yellow, while across his breast runs a regular crescent of deep raven-black, with which his back and wings are also spotted, diversified with bright bay and ochreous-yellow colours. His habits, when wild, are shy and retiring, except in the winter season, when the driving snows force him to seek out the neighbourhood of the habitations of man, and even the public roads, where he is hourly disturbed by the passage of vehicles, while in the search of his scanty meal. In the cage, he soon becomes familiar, and may even be taught like his prototype, the English Stare, or Starling, to articulate various words. In this situation he may be fed upon the different kinds of bird and grass seeds, with a large quantity of coarse gravel and plenty of water, in which he is fond of bathing. The Lark may occasionally be obtained of our professional bird-fanciers. PART II. TROUPIALS.—/Cierii. CHAPTER I. BALTIMORE ORIOLE, OR GOLDEN ROBIN.— Icterus Baltimorus. THIS singularly beautiful and interest• ing bird, is a summer resident of the whole western continent. As early as the first of May, his loud fifing song may b( heard among the budding branches of the forest oaks and kingly sycamores, or dis. tinctly above the noisy din in the street and thoroughfares of our crowded city In either situation the Hanging-bird ma) be seen darting about, full of life, activit) and joyousness, in the company of his les; richly marked mate, from twig to twig and limb to limb, in active pursuit of the small beetles and different winged insects which then form his principal nourishment. All the while he converses with his mate, or utters loud and harmonious notes of gratulation, as he secures his agile and alert prey. The song of the Golden Robin, as he is sometimes called, is loud, varied and interesting, and strikes the ear of the listener more like the shrill tone of the fife, mingled with the mellow breathings of the flute, than the notes of a woodland songster. It is likewise modulated in an exquisite manner, and frequently consists of an imitation of the sweetest and most powerful notes of other birds, which the Oriole follows with all the correctness of an echo, astonishing his hearers with his exactness and similarity. Indeed, so singular is this habit with the Hanging-bird, that I much doubt whether he has any original song of his own, and whether the various melodies with which he delights our ears, are not the notes of tropical American and West Indian birds, which he has acquired during his winter sojourn in those sections of the world. Be that as it may, we have but few among our cage-birds who possess the same manifold attractions to our affections as the Baltimore Oriole. The colours of this lovely creature are of a brilliant orange and glistening black, with a few strips of white upon the wing. From these he derives his name, since they are the colours of the family of lord Baltimore, the first proprietary of Maryland. In confinement, for which he is readily obtained by means of a trap-cage, he becomes extremely familiar and even playful, coming at call, going in and out of the house like one of the family, and perching upon the neck or head of his fair owner, with an affectionate sociability. His food in the cage should consist principally of soaked wheaten bread, scalded Indian-meal, and fruits of all kinds, as cherries, strawberries, currants, black and whortle, or as they are vulgarly called, huckleberries, and during the winter season, dried currants, raisins and figs. Insects of every kind may be added to his fare. Perhaps the best method of obtaining the Oriole, would be to rear him from the nest. This can be done with the greatest facility. The food for this purpose should be raw meats of different kinds, excepting pork, which is indigestible, minced finely and soaked in fresh sweet milk. This is equally nutritious with the insect food which he receives in a state of nature; and it will cause the bird to grow as vigorously as if he were raised by his natural protectors. When able to feed himself, the food before recommended may be placed in his cage, with the addition of sweet cakes, of which he is immoderately fond. The Oriole lives to a considerable age, when properly treated. He should be kept in the warmest room in the house during the winter season, as he is extremely susceptible of cold. CHAPTER II. ORCHARD ORIOLE, OR HANGING-BIRD.—kterus spurius. This handsome variety, so closely related to the preceding species in manner and habits, visits the United States about the same time, and continues with us about four months. At the expiration of this time, in company with small flocks of his companions, he gradually departs to winter in the more congenial temperature of tropical America. In the woods or orchards he is a most sprightly, active and even restless bird, now darting about on the highest branches of trees, singing in a wild, hurried manner, in pursuit of his prey; the next moment upon the ground searching among the waving spears of grass for a favourite insect. His song is always so rapidly executed, that it would be difficult to trace out a resemblance to that of any other songster; although he, like the Baltimore Oriole, undoubtedly indulges in the talent of mimicry. He may, like the same bird, be taken in trap-cages, and raised like him from the nest upon the same description of food, to which may be added boiled or swelled rice, of which he is, at times, immoderately fond. He will likewise greedily devour caterpillars, which, when he is in a wild state, forms a principal article of his food during the summer season. He must be kept in a very warm situation during the winter. The colour of this singular and capri- cious little songster is a rich, bright chestnut-red, with his tail and upper portion of his body of a glossy black. His form is slender and graceful, and his whole behaviour more sprightly and active, either in the forest or the cage than that of any other American bird. CHAPTER III. RED-WINGED BLACKBIRD.—Icterus prcedato- rius. This very common and well known bird is closely allied to both the preceding species, and occupies nearly the same position among the birds of America, as does the Stare, or Starling, in the Ornithology of Europe. They move together, after the breeding season has terminated, in large and densely formed flocks, which are frequently so numerous as to darken the horizon. The colour of the male is a glistening jet black, with the wing-coverts, or shoulders of the wing, of a brilliant fiery-scarlet, which is edged round on the lower part by a series of feathers of a soft and delicate cream-colour. His song, which is given with the greatest earnestness either in the cage or his native marshes, consists of a strange mixture of discordance and sweetness, something between a chatter and a warble, which constantly seem "agreeing to disagree." Yet his notes have at times a strange and if any thing, a sweet liquidity, and at others a harshness of sound most closely resembling the sawings of a file. the creaking of a tavern sign upon it rusty hinges, and the delicious melody which arises during the interesting operation of frying a pan of eggs. In fact his whole performance is a queer conglomera- tion of sweetness and discordance of tone, perfectly sui generis to this eccentric bird. In confinement, for which he is easily obtained, and in which he is frequently found, he becomes in a short time very playful and familiar, singing with great volubility and performing a variety of amusing tricks. One specimen, which was in my own collection, used to, when the cage was opened, fly to me and perch upon my head, shoulder or hand, gently stroking me with his bill; and another, which belonged to a friend, was self-educated to an almost wonderful degree, displaying talents and power of acquiring knowledge, perfectly untaught, almost equal to man himself. This bird would at the commencement of conversation by any of the family, or when his owner, who read frequently aloud, commenced that operation, though sitting perfectly quiet before, interrupt them, and entirely prevent any thing like speaking with his intense volubility and loudness of song. When he was scolded, he would retire to the upper perch of his cage, bristle out his feathers and utter the words "poor Dick! poor Dick!" so piteously that he was immediately forgiven for his amusing fault. The talents of this singular bird did not rest here. He imitated everything which struck his ear. The crowing of a cock was equal, though in a minor key, to that of the tame "Bantam," who strutted about in the neighbouring yard; and the close imitation of the mournful "coo" of the Pigeons, who sat upon the adjacent roofs, was strikingly accurate and beautiful. Another of these birds, which I afterwards possessed, owned an almost equal degree of power, but was poisoned, before he perfected his education, by a fellow lodger in the house where I resided, who complained that his early song prevented him from sleeping. Birds of this kind are frequently kept by the fanciers, to whom they are brought for sale by the "gunners," who wound them in the wing, during the months of September and October, in the large reed marshes which line the borders of our rivers. Like the Oriole they are omnivorous, but may be easily kept upon the different kinds of seeds given to Canaries, and will readily feed upon swelled rice, or buckwheat and oats, of which they are very fond. During its season they may be given an ear of green corn, which they greedily devour. They should also be well supplied with water in a pan, to allow them to bathe, which they do several times a day, flinging the liquid contents over every part of the cage; and with a sufficiency of gravel, which they use in considerable quantities to promote digestion. They should be kept in a good sized cage, and in a warm room in winter; though they are able to endure considerable cold. PART III. RICE BIRDS.—Dolichonices. CHAPTER I. REED-BIRD, OR RICE BUNTING.—Dolichonyx oryzivora. THIS interesting and vivaceous songster, so well and familiarly known to the epicure by its title of "Reed, or Butter-bird," but more so to the residents of our extensive tract of country from the singular nickname of "Bob-O-Link," being given alike to itself and the favourite note he utters, is an inhabitant during the summer and fall months of the entirety of our continent. When he first arrives in the spring, he takes up his quarters on the low and marshy meadow lands, and among the thickets which line the margins of our large rivers, inland creeks and water courses, which seem alive with melody of the clearest, most liquid, interesting and delightful character. To describe the song of this bird would be doing him injustice, so varied and so striking are the cadences which at once delight and astonish the listener. Perched upon some low bush, or tussock of grass, near their mates, hundreds of male birds may be seen and heard at one time, as they rend the air with a wild incongruity of sweet sounds, which ascend mingling in harmony, a seeming hymn of innocent votaries to the beneficent God of Nature! The plumage of this bird in his season of song, is no less singular and beautiful than his musical powers, being of a rich glossy black, with a perfect crescent on the back of the head, of a rich mellow cream-colour, while the lower portion of his back and his wing-coverts are a pure glossy white. The female is always of a clear brownish-yellow, somewhat diversified with brownish-black and a darker shade of ochreous-yellow. After the season of incubation has passed, the male loses his dark coat and becomes marked like the female. In the cage, in which, during later years, they have arrived to be great favourites, they become at once the liveliest, most agreeable and sociable of companions, constantly delighting the ears with their rich and ever varying profusion of song, which is given from daylight until sunset with scarcely any intermission. Here they have another excellent quality, in which they differ from most other songbirds, which is that they sing well in company, exciting each other to rivalry and emulation for hours and hours together. Some of the various notes, though it is difficult to describe them from the rapidity with which they are delivered, strongly resemble the pronunciation of words and " Mg even sentences by a human being. For instance the quaint epithet, "Bob-O-Link," from which they derive one of their most common names here, and indeed their only name in the northern states, to which they often add, in the progress of song, "Diddle me when you meet me, meet, meet, meet," in a most ludicrous manner. Nuttall, in his excellent "Manual of Ornithology," gives many other sentences which they repeat in the course of their song during their continuance in a wild state. These, although the fact may appear strange, approximate as closely to the character of this bird's strain of song, as words can imitate; and are usually uttered when flying on the wing near his mate, who is sitting on her nest in some overgrown tussock. "Tom Denny! Tom Denny! come-and-pay-me-the-two-and-sixpence-you've- owed- me- more-than-a-yearand-a-half-ago !" They may readily be kept in the cage upon canary-seed alone, or on a mixture of the various kinds, with the exception of hemp, which is always injurious to them; gravel and a profusion of water should be constantly supplied, as they are fonder of diving and washing than any other cage-bird. I am fully satisfied that they will breed readily in confinement, in a room; and will even, as I have myself seen, actually pair with the hen Canary, though twice the size of that favourite little bird. This experiment was very successfully tried with one of these birds and a female of the before-mentioned species, in a collection kept by Mrs. Welden, the former matron of the Philadelphia Hospital at Blockley; who, as I regret to learn, lost all the mule-birds, by one of the diseases which attack the young in the moulting season. Those which I saw at different periods were a strange intermixture, between the two parents, partaking of the colours of both, but with the bill, form and claws closely resembling the Rice-bird. I have no doubt, had they lived, they would have been wonderful for their powers of song, as well as strangeness of plumage. The disease of which they perished I believe was "surfeit," which was caused from their being fed entirely upon Indian-meal paste, owing to the difficulty of obtaining canary-seed during the summer of  . They should be kept in a comfortable room during winter, carefully guarding them from draughts of air at the periods of their moult, which occur every spring and fall. They may readily be obtained in any of our markets, at the low prices of from ""i to "" cents each, during the summer and fall, or of some of our fanciers, who have accustomed them to the cage, at one or two dollars each. PART IV. CROWS.—Corti. CHAPTER I. AMERICAN CROW.—Corvus Americana. THIS well known bird is an inhabitant of the greater portion of, if not of the whole world, and is frequently met with in a state of domestication. For this purpose he is raised from the nest, and soon becomes as familiar as a chicken, regarding man as a friend, and approaching him without the slightest hesitation or fear. We extract the following close description of his character from Nuttall's excellent Manual of Ornithology. This learned naturalist says; "the Crow is easily raised and domesticated, and soon learns to distinguish the different members of the family with which he is associated. He screams at the approach of a stranger; learns to open the door by alighting on the latch; attends regularly at meal times; is very noisy and loquacious; imitates the sound of various words which he hears; is very thievish, given to hiding curiosities in holes and crevices, and is very fond of carrying off pieces of metal, corn, bread and food of all kinds; he is also particularly attached to the society of his master, and recollects him sometimes after a long absence." He is perfectly omnivorous, eating greedily of any substance, whether animal or vegetable, which is offered to him by his owner. He lives to an extraordinary age. PART V. MAGPIES.—pica'. CHAPTER I. MAGPIE.—Pica melanolcuca. THIS bird, familiar as a household word to every inhabitant of England, is, though one of the commonest residents of the western section of this continent, only occasionally met with in the houses of our citizens, and then only when they have been brought from Europe. His plumage is a deep velvety-black, with the belly and upper portion of the wings of a glossy snow-white, which gives to the bird a singularly striking appearance. His musical powers are naturally very slight; but he possesses a talent of imitation which renders him an immense favourite. This includes nearly every thing which the Pie hears, now following the "moo" of the Cow, then running into the different notes of various song-birds, or uttering the cluck of the chicken, and so on through an almost tedious catalogue of sounds. In confinement he is very sociable, running in and out of the house, perching upon the backs of the cattle, and making himself feared and respected by the domestic animals, as dogs and cats, with whom he associates himself, playing upon them numerous tricks with a strange kind of familiarity. His power of acquiring language is very great, fully equalling if not surpassing that of the Parrot, for he will store together sentence after sentence which he hears, repeating them from time to time, with the same decision in which they were spoken and with great clearness and beauty. He is, however, to counterbalance his good qualities as great a thief as the crow, of whom we have before spoken. Some of his thefts are historical. One of these is told in the almost fatal story of the "Magpie and the Maid," which has been the foundation of so many dramas and operas, frequently performed in the theatres of America and Europe. The Magpie is kept with little difficulty, as he will live upon every thing given to him, no matter of what character. He lives to an extremely great age, some say two hundred years, on which belief a laughable anecdote occurred. A student of one of the English colleges, who was seen taking a young Pie which he had bought, to his apartment, was met and asked by one of his tutors, his reason for having made the purchase. He replied he had heard it stated "that Magpies lived two centuries, and so had bought one, in order to test the truth of the assertion !" PART VI. JAYS.—Garruli. CHAPTER I. BLUE JAY.—Garrulus cristatus. THE Blue Jay, so poetically entitled by Audubon "The fop of the forest," is a well known inhabitant, in a wild state, of the extensive forests of the whole of North America; and is frequently seen as a cage-bird in our inland and larger cities. His colour is by far his best recommendation; since his song, though in some particulars sweet, is more noisy than harmonious. In confinement, he becomes almost entirely changed; and he, like his close relatives in manners and habits, the Jack-daw, Magpie, Crow—and his proto- type the British Jay, becomes noted for his imitative talent, which in some few cultivated instances is scarcely inferior to that of the Mocking-bird; and he becomes so sociable and familiar, that he may be allowed to travel over the house. He is equally as notorious for pilfering and hiding every thing in his reach as his above-mentioned kinsmen. In the cage, the Jay may be fed upon seeds of different kinds, as canary and hemp, of which latter, from its oily character, he is extremely fond, and any other substance, animal or vegetable. The first had better be chopped fine, and the latter cooked. Eggs, when given to him, must be boiled hard. He is likewise partial to chestnuts, acorns and maize, or Indian-corn, either in a green or dry state, which in the last instance, he invariably breaks before swallowing. The Blue Jay may occasionally be obtained of our bird-fanciers, or be reared from the nests, which may always be found within a few miles of the city. When thus raised he must be fed upon raw beef, veal, mutton or lamb, chopped fine and soaked in milk. He should be allowed a profusion of water and an abundance of gravel. BOOK III. INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS.—Insectivores. CHAPTER I. On the general characteristics of Insectivorous Birds. THE birds of this order are not so highly celebrated for docility as those of the granivorous or omnivorous tribes, perhaps because but few attempts have been made on their education. Yet we have no doubt they are equally as susceptible of that process as the others, though undoubtedly it would prove a more difficult task, owing to the natural wildness of the order, and the difficulty and in many instances impossibility of breeding them in confinement. The song of the generality of birds belonging to this tribe, is in common harmonious and agreeable, and in some few instances, as in the Mocking and Minor-birds, the Nightingale and the various species of the Thrushes, surpasses any thing like rivalry. Their food in a state of nature, consists principally and almost wholly of insects, and entirely so during the period of incubation. To this is added berries of various kinds, but we ourselves are certain, and in that opinion are supported by the most distinguished naturalists, that these are only and occasionally used as an aliment, when insects are scarce and difficult to be procured. In the wild state many of the species rear several broods, generally not more than two, during a season, dwelling indiscriminately in woods and thickets, the neighbourhood of the farm-house, or among reeds, where they are always found in solitary pairs. In the time of migration, in autumn, some kinds depart in large flocks, while others leave singly and in an almost imperceptible manner. On this and indeed on almost every continent, with the single exception here of the Robin, they are extremely tender, leaving us before, or about the time of the commencement of frosts. DIVISION I. FOREIGN BIRDS. PART I. THRUSHES.— Turdi. CHAPTER I. EUROPEAN BIACKBIRD.—Turdus merula. THIS beautiful and highly appreciated bird is at once the largest, and one of the sweetest songsters of his tribe, which are found in confinement. His song, which "" clear and thrillingly sweet in its cadences, strongly resembles the mellow breathings of the flute; and is heard from the summit of a tall bush or tree, from among the low thickets which he frequents, and which line the lane sides or farm-fences in his native country. This is given principally from day-dawn until near mid-day, and abounds in spirit and variety. In the cage, where he is highly esteemed, he becomes very docile, and may be readily taught to whistle tunes, which he does with the greatest clearness and precision. Here, he is a greater favourite than the Thrush; but from his pugnacious character, he should never be associated with other birds, it being proper to keep him always alone, and in a large and roomy cage. In a collection of birds, from his peculiar character, the soft mellow song of the Blackbird is particularly distinct among the sharp trilling voices peculiar to the family of Finches. The treatment of this songster must be the same as that prescribed hereinafter for the Mocking-bird, both as regards food and the cure of disease. The Blackbird may frequently be obtained from our best fanciers, or from the mates and sailors of European trading vessels. Their prices vary from ten to twenty dollars. The colour of the male is wholly black, with the bill, mouth and eye-lids of a deep yellow. The female is a brown colour, which is rusty in appearance on her breast and belly. The bill is likewise dusky and the legs are brown. CHAPTER II. EUROPEAN, OR ENGLISH THRUSH.—Turdus musicus. The Irish or English Thrush, as he is most commonly called in this country, and in his own indifferently the Mavis, the Throstle, or the Song Thrush, is one of the most delicious songsters in existence. He is easily distinguished among all other birds, by the superior clearness and fulness of his note, which is charming, not only for its concentrated sweetness, but for its constantly changing variety. His song is given in a wild state from a very early portion of the spring to the latter part of the summer, and is continued throughout the greater part of the day; though, as with most other birds, his notes possess more power and depth in the early part of the morning. In England, as a cage-bird, with the exception of the Nightingale, he is the most esteemed of all the British songsters; although possessing less romance of character than that bird, yet his song has more of that rustic vigour and matter of fact than the latter owns, who as it were possesses the refinement and beauty of cultivated, while the other abounds in that of uneducated genius. These two songsters, in comparison, may be called the Pope and Burns of the feathered race. His treatment should be the same as that of the Mocking-bird. His prices vary from six to fifteen dollars in this country, entirely on account of greater or less richness or vigour of voice. The native notes of this bird are so fine, that although he is capable of acquiring, he is never taught airs, which in this case would be really a sacrilegious perversion of nature. His colours are very similar to, but deeper than those of our Wood Thrush, (Turdus melodus,) a songster of rich and sweet, but melancholy tone of voice. These are a reddish-brown on the upper part of the body, while the breast and sides of the bird are beautifully and regularly marked with spots of a dark brown, on a creamy-white ground. The throat is pure white, and the eye of the bird hazel, remarkable for its vivacity of expression. CHAPTER III. MINOR-BIRD.- Turdus minor. This large and handsome East Indian bird, is frequently found in this country, to which he is brought by our "homeward-bound" vessels, and where he brings extravagant prices. He is a true Thrush in all his manners and habits, and is equally celebrated for the loudness • and almost overpowering vivacity of his song, for the ease and beauty with which he imitates the songs of different birds and musical composition, and for his talent for acquiring. h nguage. In the cage he is likewise easily kept, being fed upon the same food as our Thrushes and Mocking-birds, and is as docile and affectionate to his owner and the different members of the family, whom he soon learns to distinguish. Here he requires plenty of water for bathing, and an abundant supply of gravel. A fine song-bird of this species is worth from twenty to fifty dollars. PART II. WARBLERS.—Sylvia. CHAPTER I. ROBIN, OR RED-BREAST.—Sylvia rubicola. THIS favourite and familiar little bird, known to almost every reader as the Robin Red-breast of the story of the "Babes in the Wood," is another native of Europe, who we only occasionally see in confinement in this country. In England, he is everywhere held in respect and esteem, and is known by the most endearing appellations. There, where he is quite hardy, he becomes so sociable in winter as to tap at the window and claim the protection of man. Entering the house and perching upon the table, he seeks out for crumbs to enable him to sustain life; or hops around the door, and finds his food in social community with the domestic fowls. We extract a passage from a well known author, illustrating the peculiarity of character in this bird. "The Red-breast sacred to the household gods, Wisely regardful of the embroiling sky In joyless fields and thorny thickets leaves His shivering mates, and pays to trusted man His annual visit. Half afraid, he first Against the window beats; then brisk alights On the warm hearth; then, hopping o'er the floor, Eyes all the smiling family askance, And pecks, and starts, and wonders where he is; 'Till more familiar grown, the table crumbs Attract his slender feet." His colours though not beautiful, are neat and striking, he being a rich brown on the upper part of the body, and on the head, which passes off into a greenish-olive shade; while the breast and throat are reddish-orange, varying into a pure white on the lower extremities. He is easily kept on the same food as our Mocking-bird, and becomes very social, coming at call and perching himself upon his owner's hand and singing at the word of command. "" PART III. NIGHTINGALES.—CUTTUCCE. CHAPTER I. ENGLISH NIGHTINGALE.—CUrrucct luscinia. OF all birds, this little favourite possesses the greatest reputation as a songster. Inhabiting the whole of the European and Asiatic continents, he is everywhere the theme of the poet's empassioned song, and the object of attachment. Shakspeare and Byron . of the west, and Hafiz, Ferdousi and the thousand other poets of the east, have elevated the "Bulbul of a thousand songs" into a kinil of god-like immortality. With the rose among flowers, the Nightingale is associated among birds, and if all the descrip- tions which poets and historians have given to us of this wonderful songster be true, he well deserves his pre-eminence. His song is said to commence at sunset, when all the rest of the world is slowly sinking into silence; and, as the last rays of the red-sun fall on the mountain tops, and the crested coronals of the lofty forest trees, crowning them as it were with a halo of flame, it rises in its fullest perfection. Then, the Nightingale from his perch, warbles on until the God of day rises in the east. His song is at once most melodious and expressive, now swelling into loudness and splendour of tone, it the next instant sinks into the most soothing softness and exquisitiveness of expression; or, is low, faint and murmuring as the last dying tones of a far distant echo, and then bursting into violent and rapid articulation, he breathes at once anger, passion, love, delight and joy, in the constant and ever varying changes which he pours out, like water ever gush- ing from a spring, on the ear of night. How beautiful is Byron's description of the song of this bird, in his never-to-beforgotten "Bride of Abydos!" "The live-long night there sings A bird unseen—but not remote: Invisible his airy wings, But soft as harp that Houri strings His long enchanting note! It were the bulbul; but his throat Though mournful, pours not such a strain: For they who listen cannot leave The spot, but linger there and grieve As if they loved in vain! And yet so sweet the tears they shed, 'Tis sorrow so unmixed with dread, They scarce can bear the morn to break That melancholy spell, And longer yet would weep and wake, He sings so wild and well! But when the day-blush bursts from high Expires that magic melody ! And again how powerful, and yet how sweet, is the tale of the Prince Menaphon to his cousin Amethus, in Ford's (one of the old English poets,) "Lovers' Melancholy." "Men. I day by day frequented silent groves And solitary walks. One morning early This accident encountered me: I heard The sweetest and most ravishing contention That art and nature ever were at strife in. anzet. I cannot yet conceive what you infer By art and nature ? Men.	I shall soon resolve you. A sound of music touch'd mine ears, or rather, Indeed, entranced my soul: as I stole nearer, Invited by the melody, I saw This youth, this fair faced youth, upon his lute, With strains of strange variety and harmony, Proclaiming, as it seemed, so bold a challenge To the clear choristers of the woods, the birds, That, as they flock'd about him, all stood silent, Wond'ring at what they heard. I wonder'd too. .floret. And so do I; good! on— Men.	A Nightingale, Nature's best skill'd musician, undertakes The challenge, and for every several strain ""* The well shaped youth could touch, she sung her own; He could not run division with more art Upon his quaking instrument, than she, The Nightingale, did with her various notes Reply to; for a voice, and for a sound, Amethus, 'tis much easier to believe That such they were, than hope to hear again. dmet. How did the rivals part? Men.	You term them rightly; For they were rivals, and their mistress, har- mony. Some time thus spent, the young man grew at last Into a pretty anger, that a bird Whom art had never taught cliffs, moods, or notes, Should vie with him for mastery, whose study Had busied many hours to perfect practice: To end the controversy, in a rapture Upon the instrument he plays so swiftly, So many voluntaries and so quick, That there was curiosity and cunning, Concord and discord, lines of differing method Meeting in one centre of full delight. dmet. Now for the bird. men.	" ne bnra oruamect to De Music's first martyr, strove to imitate These several sounds; which, when her warbling throat Fail'd in, for grief, down dropped she on his lute, And brake her heart! We clip from the ably edited "Inquirer" of May "",  , the following notice of the death, in a similar manner to Ford's graceful description, of ene of these delightful birds in Richmond, Virginia. Who can now say that poetry is not the eloquence of truth. "One of the admired Nightingales we spoke a few days ago of having been invited to hear, sang itself to death one or two mornings since. The two were in separate cages, suspended, one in the porch, the other in an adjacent room. They appeared to be engaged in a trial of their musical powers, and were exerting all their strength, rattling their wings, ruffling their feathers, jumping about their cages, varying and swelling their songs, until the whole air seemed tilled with the sweet volumes they uttered. This they continued for some time, when one of them fainted away and died. His little heart seemed to have swelled with the spirit of song until it bursted, and his soul passed away. It was truly touching to see the sweet warbler die thus, in the midst of his song—and it was not wholly unnatural to indulge ao faint idea, that so sweet a vocal strain did not end with the little bird. It was strongly calculated to inspire credulity in the metempsychosis,—and may not the spiritual part of this extraordinary feathered vocalist yet inhabit the body of some Malibran? Who knows?" "The above is from the Richmond Compiler. We regard it as touching and beautiful. The incident would form a fine theme for a poet. The Death Song of the Nightingale! The disembodied spirit of Mrs. Hemans, or of Miss Landon, should be invoked for such a strain! Daughters of genius, who may forget them! They also expired amidst the sounds of their own melody. The gift of poetry was to them like the power of music to the ambitious bird. They soared away from earth and earthly things—on—on—through the blue depths of a world of their own creation. May we not hope that as the immortal parted from the mortal, the former, as angelic spirits, passed into a holier and heavenlier state, and became beings of a world where all is music, and poesy, and praise, and harmony." The accompanying elegant comments in the concluding paragraph, are from the pen of one of our most gifted and graceful poets, Robert Morris, of Philadelphia, who, though possessed of fire and genius sufficient for a far more arduous task, invokes the spirits of the hallowed dead to breathe forth such a strain. These and their golden lyres are now breathing a purer melody in a better world, but we, though possessing none of their talents, in all modesty accept the challenge, and pre- sent our readers with the following trifling poem. THE DEATH OF THE NIGHTINGALE. Forth in that last glad strain! Thy swelling soul burst forth and fled away, While on the earth reposed Thy silent clay. 'Twas sweet, full sweet to die Amid the music of thine own glad heart; To burst the chords of life And so depart. But where, sweet one ! oh! where Hath fled thy gentle soul? Unto that heaven, Where rose thy hymn so sweet, At close of even? Or in some kindred form Doth it repose, 'till twilight's quiet hour Shall call it forth again, With sweeter power? Or 'mid the scenes so loved, Dost thou now wander on ethereal wing, And through the moon-lit groves, Flit sorrowing?— When in the deep midnight My steps have wandered 'neath the arching trees, Oft have I heard sweet sounds Float on the breeze. And then, enwrapt, I thought Them lays of disembodied souls of those Whose sylvan songs to God All pure uprose! Perchance, whene'er again I seek the woods, upon my wond'ring ear May fall thy spirit song, In accents clear.— Thine was a hapless end; For like to fire, thy love of song consumed Thy own pure heart, and thou Didst die self-doomed! Thine was the death of those Who seek for earthly fame, and wildly crave Men's worship here, but find A nameless grave. Better to look on high, With hopes and thoughts to One, Almighty given, And immortality Is thine in heaven! In the cage, the Nightingale may be treated like any of the Thrush tribe. For this purpose he is generally raised from the nest, or caught in nets, or trap-cages, or by means of limed twigs. The first are ever the best birds. His price in America is from forty to sixty dollars, and even at that, though seemingly exorbitant, obtained with difficulty. DIVISION II. NATIVE BIRDS. PART I. MOCKING-THRUSHES.—Mimi. CHAPTER I. MOCKING-BIRD.—Illimus polyglottis. THIS every where esteemed and beautiful Thrush, whose musical talents are so highly appreciated in this country and Europe, is a native bird, unrivalled for grandeur and power of song by any other in the known world. He is found in his natural condition from the state of Pennsylvania to the Rocky Mountains; in fact, he is seen from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean as far south as the interior of Brazil. He is occasionally now, though rarely, seen in the vicinity of Philadelphia, whence he has been gradually driven by a constant pursuit, which arose from the great price constantly demanded and obtained for him, from the fancier. In fact, from this cause, scarcely a square in any one of our large cities has not at least one, and frequently as many as a dozen cages, suspended from the windows of gentlemen's mansions. It would be unnecessary in our limited work to describe the appearance of this bird, which is more remarkable for plainness and intelligence than for any extraordinary beauty. In the cage as well as in the wood, his every motion is ease and gracefulness itself, combined with a lightness and rapidity of motion which is amusing to the spectator, from its resemblance to caprice and an apparent coquettishness of demeanour. Now, with his head bent upon one side, and an arch and shrewd expression lighting up his eye, he is seated almost motionless upon his perch, quietly gathering the sounds which arise to his elevated position from the street beneath. In an instant he is changed, "and such a change !"—With outspread wings and flirted tail, he flits from side to side and perch to perch, like an empassioned but earnest troubadour, pouring forth his whole soul in song. In a wild state, his notes, from the ten thousand opportunities constantly offered, are much finer than in a state of domestication. There, where the wild hymns of the forest choir are constantly ringing in his ears, he has ample scope for his imitative powers. The song which these produce is unsurpassed except by his native notes, which are replete with vigour, boldness, sweetness, energy and constant and inimitable variation. In the forest, like the leader of an orchestra, or some accomplished musician, he sits upon a lofty twig, with the whole feathered race around pouring out their varied performances, as an accompaniment to his song; forming on the whole, one of the grandest overtures which the human mind is capable of appreciating. These wild notes of his own are noted for their expression and beauty, and consist of short sentences of two, or three, or four syllables, which are mingled with imitations, and given with such ardour as to fill the breast of the listener with admiration. But in the cage, to which he soon becomes accustomed, he is better known as a songster. Here, fully as happy as in his woodland home, his intelligence and genius have ample scope; and he spreads, by their exertion, a feeling of joy and happiness around. Day by day, and night by night, he is unceasing in his song; cloudy or clear weather is the same to him; he is the Shakspeare of nature, and his genius never sleeps. I have set in my chamber many a morning, when the first tints ol light were struggling into being, in the grey and misty looking east, while the stars were yet peering from their shadowy homes down on the quiet abodes of man. and raising my window suffered the coo] breeze to steal through my heated apart. ment. Suddenly, while I sat in reverie. the distant scream of an eagle burst on my ear, and I started up, putting aside the branches of flowers which stood on the window-ledge, and gazed far away round the blue horizon to catch a glimpse of the royal bird. Then came the mellow song of the Robin, the "hear beauty, hear,'' of the Blue-bird, the fifing "whittoo, wittu. vittu," of the Scarlet Cardinal, and the shrill cry of the Kildeer, "killdee, killdee,'' which is given as it flutters wildly around the head of the intruder in the vicinity ol his nest. Then came the "weet-weet" ol the Spotted Sandpiper, followed in the same breath by the hoarse guttural "caw, caw," of the Crow, and then the low, ""* sweet melody of the Wren, which in an instant changed to the parental "cluck, cluck" of the hen, gathering her young around her. Then "whirr, whirr," went a watchman's rattle, "bow, wow, wow," the yelp of a dog, "meow, meow, phits, phits," the fighting of a pair of cats, "uh! wee! uh ! wee !" the grunt of some antiquated porker, and then the concert closed with the rich and mellow whistle of the Brown Thrush, dying away in the distance. Such was my morning's amusement for weeks and weeks together, listening to the lay of the Mock-bird, and tracing out song after song as they were uttered, to the original source, from which they were first derived. But prose, plain prose is unequal to the task of giving an idea of the capabilities of this feathered Orpheus of our forest, and we turn to a lay of one of our gifted poets, which can better speak in the empassioned language of song, those powers which our own pen would be feeble to describe. To THE MOCKING-BIRD. BY FRANCIS COSBY, JR. Bird of the wild and wondrous song! I hear thy rich and varied voice, Swelling the greenwood-depths among Till gloom and silence, pleased, rejoice! Spell-bound, entranced in rapture's chain, We list to that inspiring strain! We tread the forest's tangled maze, The thousand choristers to see, Who mingled thus their voices raise, In that ecstatic minstrelsy. We search in vain, each pause between, The choral band is still unseen. 'Tis but the music of a dream, Such as cloth oft our slumbers cheer; But hark again! the eagle's scream! It rose and fell distinct and clear! And list, in yonder hawthorn bush, The red bird, robin, and the thrush! Lost in amaze we look around, Nor thrush nor eagle there behold! But still that rich aerial sound, Like some forgotten song of old, That o'er the heart hath held control, Falls sweetly on the ravished soul. And yet the woods are vocal still, The air is redolent with song— Up the hill-side, above the rill The wild'ring sounds are borne along! But where, ye viewless minstrels! where Dwell ye? on earth or upper air? High on a solitary bough, With glancing wings and restless feet, Bird of untiring throat art thou, Sole songster in this concert sweet! So perfect, full and rich each part, It mocks the highest reach of art! Once more, once more, that thrilling strain! Ill-omen'd owl, be mute, be mute! Thy native notes I hear again! More sweet than harp or lover's lute! Compared with thy impassion'd tale, How cold, how tame the nightingale! Alas! capricious is thy power, Thy 'wood note wild' again is fled; The mimic rules the changeful hour, And all the soul of song is dead! But no! to every borrow'd tone, He lends a sweetness all his own. On glittering wing, erect and bright, With arrowy speed he darts aloft, As though his soul had ta'en its flight, In that last strain so sad and soft—And he would call it back to life, To mingle in the mimic strife. And aye in every fitful lay His frame in restless motion wheels, As though he would indeed essay To act the ecstacy he feels; As though his very feet kept time To that inimitable chime. And ever as the rising moon Lifts her bright orb the trees above, He chants his most melodious tune While echo makes through all the grove; Perched on the topmost bough he sings, Till all the forest loudly rings! The sleeper from his couch starts up To listen to that lay forlorn, And he, who quaffs the midnight cup, Looks out to see the purpling morn. Oh! ever in the merry spring, Sweet mimic, let me hear thee sing! For the cage, those birds raised from the nest are the best adapted; since they are accustomed to the sight of man from the first, and are never so wild as those which are trapped from the woods, though the latter are the best songsters. The young are generally sold in our streets at from two to five dollars each, the purchaser running the risk of the sex of the bird. This, however, can be obviated by observing the following rule. The young male Mocking-bird, must always be chosen by the breadth and purity of the white marks on their wing-feathers. These, in the male, are spread over the whole nine primaries, or outer wing-feathers, down to and frequently a considerable distance below what is termed their coverts, which are generally of a dusky white, tipped with pale greyish- brown. This white mark extends regularly on both sides of the feathers down to the place before-mentioned. In the female, this white is less distinct, spreads over a less number of the feathers, and extends a much greater distance on the broad than on the narrow sides of each. The wings besides are inclined to brown, which in the male are black. The best food for the young, until able to take care of themselves, is raw meat, which shall be either beef, mutton, lamb or veal, never pork, without any fat, and be chopped or minced fine, and soaked in fresh sweet milk. This is the most nutritious nourishment they could receive, as it approximates most closely to that which they would obtain from the parent birds, insects of various descriptions. Besides this, Indian-meal, mixed to a thick paste with sweet milk or water, is an excellent addition, and must be fed to them daily. When the birds have arrived at a proper age, and can feed without assistance, the same food may be continued for a month, or six weeks, supplying them also with all the different kinds of berries as they alternately arrive in season. They must have cherries, straw, black and whortle or huckleberries, &c. during the summer time; in the autumn those of the poke, alder, dogwood and sour-gum, all of which are readily to be found in the vicinity of the city; and, during the winter season, those of the pokeberry, which are dried for the purpose, and can always be had at the best seed warehouses, and of the Virginia juniper, or red cedar. At this latter time, they may receive soaked currants, raisins and slices of mellow fruits, such as apples, pears and peaches. They will likewise eat rice, boiled soft in milk and sweetened, which is very nutritious. They should also have insects of various kinds, as grasshoppers and beetles, on every possible occasion. Spiders and meal-worms, which last can be obtained at any granary, will immediately revive them, if given when they are either drooping or sick. Boiled egg is also excellent. The Mocking-bird, when caught in an adult state, should be placed at once in a cage, which should be covered at the top with wood, and entirely round the sides with a linen cloth. This should remain for a few days; during this time allowing him space for air. Then it may be removed. The covered top prevents him from injuring himself in his vain attempts to escape; for birds will always make the most zealous exertions to get out from the loftiest part of their place of confinement. This apparently wild bird may be readily taught to breed in confinement; and if the proper rules are observed, he will do so as safely and as certainly as he would in his native woods. A room should be partitioned off ten or twelve feet square, with one window, which should be covered on the outside with a wire bow; the whole being in a lofty, quiet and undisturbed position. In the centre of this, immediately opposite the window, should be placed in a box of earth a "straggly" growing, well limbed juniper or red cedar tree. The earth must be kept tolerably moist, so that the tree may continue in a healthy state. Building materials, such as short, very slender twigs, wool, deer's hair, &c. must be scattered loosely around the room on the floor, which should be well and deeply gravelled. After this is done, your birds, who may be kept together for some time before, may be placed in the apartment, which should also have two or three limbs of trees, so arranged that they can find plenty of perches. The partition should be disposed somewhat after the manner of Venetian blinds, to afford ventilation, and the slats should be painted of a green colour. If convenient, some shrubbery, that will stand a partial shade, should be placed around its sides, as the closest approach to a state of nature will be the surest means of success. The birds, if fed every other day with a little of the mixture prescribed for the Canary in a like situation, or on hard-boiled eggs, with a little chopped raw beef, and insects, when they can be obtained, will soon commence building. When they are breeding they must be as little disturbed as possible; their food and water being placed in their room through a door in the side, without the tender being seen, and all persons kept away from their vicinity. When the young are hatched, the old birds may have a paste composed of milk and Indian-meal, for the purpose of feeding their progeny; and as the latter advance in growth they should be supplied with a profusion of berries of different kinds. The female always lays five eggs, which must never be touched during the opera- tion of sitting; for if the eggs be thus disturbed, she will invariably leave them. Should you wish to rear the young by hand, the directions for that purpose before laid down must be closely followed, and the young Mockers fed every half hour at the least. The old birds will then probably, but not certainly, rear another brood. When diseased, as all the ailments which affect birds are similar, they may be treated like the Canary in a similar situation. But the Mocking-bird is subject to one disease which is incurable—it is blindness, which generally afflicts him after he has spent six or seven years in confinement. Thus shut out from light, he gradually pines away and dies. Alas! that the career of brilliant genius should be always one of shortness and sorrow! Man like the bird spends his life in a cage of worldliness, looked upon for one moment with admiration, the next sinking down beneath the darkness of poverty to oblivion, as the other does beneath the blindness of nature to death. Bird and Man! are ye not alike in your glory, as ye are in your fate? In the cage, the Mocking-bird should be regularly supplied with water once a day, and if the weather be very warm, twice. In the latter instance, he should be kept in a situation where he will have plenty of air; but not in one where the hot rays of the sun would fall for several hours together upon his cage, as this would at once kill him in the summer time, though in the winter it would tend to the advancement of his health. In the moulting- season, however, this treatment must be changed; the bird must be taken in the house and kept warm, quiet and free from draughts of air, which at that critical period are always very injurious. This fatal time for birds occurs with this species about the commencement of August, and continues until the beginning of November. During this season your birds should be richly fed, and have as frequently as possible spiders, which I before remarked, were an excellent revival to their systems, and also grasshoppers. These are their principal food, with other insects, at that season, in a state of nature. They should likewise have meal-worms, which are found in granaries, if they be severely affected. Another great requisite is gravel, which should be kept constantly in the cage. But that which is most important, is regularity in the process of feeding. Your birds should be fed every morning at the same time, and not one day at one, and the next at a different hour. Such neglect will render him dispirited and drooping, and he will lose his song, and finally pine away and die, as if believing that the neglect arose because his powers were no longer appreciated. CHAPTER II. BROWN, OR FERRUGINOUS THRUSH, OR THRASHER.—Illimus ferrugineus. This large and beautiful Mocker, far surpassing in sweetness and variety of song the celebrated Throstle or Mavis, of England, and scarcely inferior to the glorious Mocking-bird in voice and talent, is another of the choice, but too much neglected songsters of our native land, and a summer resident of the entire continent. His colour, which is handsomer than that of the Mocking-bird, is a reddish-brown, with the throat, breast and belly of a yellowish-white, beautifully marked with lanceolate umbrous spots. Two bars of white, edged with black, ornament the wings of this bird, and give a neat effect to his appearance. His eyes are of a bright yellow. His song is loud, bold, striking and full of originality, and given, like that of the preceding species, at all hours of the day and night; but most frequently in the morning. He is readily raised from the nest on the same treatment as the before-mentioned bird; and becomes much more amusing and sociable in confinement, and shows the warmest attachment for the person who tends and feeds him; while his activity in the cage amounts almost to capriciousness and even seeming petulance. He should be kept warm in the winter, and receive the same articles of nourishment, and the same treatment when diseased, as the Mocking-bird. CHAPTER III. CAT-BIRD.—Illimus felivox. This quaint, but beautiful songster, of the same tribe as our Mocking-bird, and so similar in habit and manners, is another of our neglected native residents. In his song, he is scarcely inferior to that well known bird, and in every way equal to his delightful relation, the French Mockingbird, or Brown Thrush. Possessing as he does, at once all the varied gifts of both these delightful songsters in an eminent degree, it has long been a wonder to me why his musical powers have not been more fully appreciated. But so it is. Humbleness of colour, united with the harsh, scolding, cat-like call, from which he derives his name, and for which he is often killed by the ignorant farm boy, have prevented him from being so gene- rally known as his rich, sweet voice, so varied in compass, deserves. His talents as a Mocker are also very great, and the description of the Mockingbird's song will very little exceed a portraiture of his efforts, while the richness of his native notes is fully equal to that of the Brown Thrush. But, in addition to all these, there is a quaintness in his execution, which abounds in emphasis and melody, and is singularly striking in effect. He frequently sings at night, when every other bird save himself and the Mockingbird, is in repose; or in the dim hour of twilight, when his musical talents perhaps possess their fullest power, and his song then "rises and falls with all the swell and studied cadence of finished harmony." For confinement, he may readily be caught in a trap-cage, observing, should you so obtain him, the same treatment as prescribed for the Mocking-bird; covering his cage, or raising him from the nest in the same way. His colour is a dark slate, with the crown of the head and his tail black. His motions in the cage are strange and fantastical. He should be kept in a roomy cage, and abundantly supplied with water, for the purpose of bathing, of which exercise he is excessively fond, dashing about and submerging himself until every feather is wholly drenched. His food may consist of every thing of a vegetable nature, with the exception of unbruised seeds. Bread, soaked in milk or water, fine pastry, mashed potatoes, boiled rice, fruits and berries, scalded corn-meal, cakes of different kinds, and at intervals minced flesh, and insects when they can be obtained. Gravel should also always be kept in his cage. PART II. ••••^•••• TRUE THRUSHES.-Turdi. CHAPTER I. AMERICAN ROBIN.-Turdus migratorius. This common and social resident, who is as familiarly known to our countrymen as his namesake, the Robin Red-breast of Europe, is highly esteemed throughout all sections of the country, as a cage-bird, and a most delightful songster. His song, when in a wild state, is earnest, thrilling and powerful; but in the cage it seems to acquire much by education and association with civilized nature. In confinement, he readily imitates any sprightly tune; and Wilson describes one, who piped with affected solemnity the dull and serious psalm measure of "Old Hun- dyed." He is also possessed of considerable powers of mimicry, which is displayed in imitations of various birds of different tones and even characters of voice. Among these he is peculiar in selecting the mellow lay of the Blue-bird, the low whisper of the Pee-wee, and the plaintive call of the Whip-poor-will, although he finds a host of others as widely differing to imitate. In the cage he seems jealous of approach, springing to the side of the cage, and with either real or affected anger, striking at the hand which is pointed through the wires. But when raised from the nest, as he usually is, for confinement, he becomes very tame, and will go in and out of the house, attend at table for his share of the dessert, and hop about with perfect freedom and unrestrained confidence. When thus domesticated, he feels uneasy, and shows considerable peevishness, if left alone or neglected. He will "" likewise articulate plainly the name by which he is known. His song is generally given in the early part of the day, and is most powerful about sunrise, bursting forth into full, loud and impassioned cadences. His treatment is that of the Mockingbird and other Thrushes, and if well attended to he frequently survives to the age of twenty years. PART II. BLUE-BIRDS.—Sia/iCE. CHAPTER I. Wilsonii. THIS beautiful and favourite, though rather mournful voiced songster, is another of the many interesting natives of our own sunny land. To great beauty of plumage and delightful tone of song, he adds a sociability and confidence of manner which at once endears him to the hearts of every one. He may be called a bird of passage, though he only departE from our homesteads when the severity of winter comes on, and even then in itE midst, his sweet notes are heard from some lonely leafless tree, or high in air, a sweet harbinger of sunny days to come. His colours are a bright azure blue on the back and wings, the primaries of which, with his tail, are black, and his breast is a rich ruddy chestnut hue. His abdomen and vent are a clear snowy-white. The female, who is valueless, is paler and greyer in hue, with the breast of a dusky olivaceous tint. We cannot refrain from giving to our readers, the beautiful lines to this bird by our accomplished townsman, David Paul Brown, Esq. A gentleman, who, whether at the bar, of which he is one of the most distinguished ornaments, or in the higher walks of literature, is celebrated for the surpassing powers of eloquence, and the high tone of moral feeling which pervades his writings. THE BLUE-BIRD. ", do you hear the Blue-bird, The herald of the spring—How cheerily he tunes his pipe, How blithely plumes his wing! He breathes the native note of praise, To the great Source of Good, The trees are vocal with his lays, Instinct with gratitude. He mounts upon his downy wing, He cleaves the ambient air, Inhales the balmy breath of spring, And wakes the world to prayer. The fertile earth, at Nature's voice, Unlock's her precious store, And mount and vale and plain rejoice, To greet the genial hour. The purling stream, no longer bound In winter's icy chain, Sparkles beneath the sunny ray, And freely flows again. Flows—as life flows in infancy, Pure, radiant and serene, Through flow'rs and fields and fragrant groves That animate the scene. Flows on till winter checks its tide, And robs it of its bloom, Like death, that in our youthful pride, Consigns us to the tomb. ""* Vet man, for whom these notes are sung, For whom these waters flow, For whom this vernal wealth abounds, The monarch here below! 'Ian, only man! with lofty brow, With stubborn heart and knee, Looks o'er this smiling universe, Ungrateful, Lord, to thee. Ile perils of the winter past—Spring, like a blooming bride, The summer's and the autumn's hope, All magnify his pride! There—there he stands—a rebel still, A recreant to that Power, ['hat murmurs in each limpid rill,. And breathes in every flower. The Blue-bird may be readily obtained by means of trap-cages, though he thrives "est in confinement when reared from the lest. As he is one of our most common Songsters, his young may be found in ilmost any orchard in which a hollow or lecayed apple tree can be seen. In the holes of which, from six to ten feet from the ground, he always breeds. The young should be fed in the same manner as the young of the Mocking-bird, to whom he is nearly related; and when of a sufficient age, he may be kept upon the same food as it, or any other of the Thrush tribe. His diseases, as indeed those of all birds, may be treated like the Canary, or the last mentioned songster. MODE OF CARRYING BIRDS TO A DISTANCE. Should the fancier at any time desire to send a bird of any description to a distant part of the country, and wish it to go safely, he must procure a small wicker-fronted cage, about six or seven inches high inside, and seven or eight inches long, with a hard back, top and sides. This size is the most suitable, as it will prevent the bird from flying about and consequently injuring himself. When travelling from place to place, the front of the cage should be covered with a piece of gauze, which will allow the bird sufficient light to feed himself, and yet prevent him from being alarmed by the novelty of the surrounding objects. Instead of a water fount, a sponge should be put in one corner of the cage, on which a little fresh water should be poured every morning. The birds when requiring drink will then press this with their bills, and so never suffer from thirst, which were a fountain placed in their cage, they would invariably do, as the water would be constantly spilling, and consequently many fine birds would be lost. The box containing the seed or other food may be permanently fastened at the side, or the seed may even be scattered over the bottom. APPENDIX. CHAPTER ". PARROT TRIBE.—Psittaci. The Parrots, who are a widely esteemed and superb species of birds, are natives of the greater portion of the world. In North America we have but one kind, the Carolina Parakeet, (Conurus Carolinensis,) one of the most gorgeous of the whole magnificent tribe. This is a native of the Southern and Western States, and never found naturally in the North; although they are occasionally seen here when sent as a present by some southern friend, or brought for sale by sailors from the seacoast towns. This species readily becomes tame in confinement, although only then esteemed for his richness of plumage and acquired docility, as he possesses little or no talent in imitating the human voice. He will soon, however, learn to come when called, and answer to his name when addressed by his owner. Various species of this splendidly plumaged race of birds, are found at all times for sale in the different bird-shops throughout the country, and at prices which depend entirely upon the education of the bird. This power, given by proper training, is at all times truly wonderful, and if not so well known would seem to be almost incredible. Among the many authenticated instances of acquirement of knowledge on the part of the Parrot, we give some of the most remarkable; though a volume might readily be filled upon this subject alone. The first instance that we shall notice, is that of one of the common ash-grey co- loured kinds, belonging to colonel O'Kelly, of Bristol, and for which he gave one hundred guineas, (nearly five hundred dollars.) This singularly talented bird, whistled not one, but a number of distinct and lengthy tunes, with the greatest precision and power, beating time with his right foot throughout his whole performance with all the exactitude of an accomplished musician. His ear during the air was remarkably correct, but if he occasionally produced a false note, he would immediately recommence the same bar, and then continue on to the end of the piece in a regular and exquisite manner, keeping time until its termination. Besides this extraordinary musical talent, he would give his orders for the different articles of food of which he was most fond, in a manner which had the strongest appearance of perfect reason. This strangely accomplished bird lived to the age of thirty years, and when he died, a long obituary notice appeared in the General Evening Post of October ",  , from an old copy of which we extract the principal items. Colonel O'Kelly was extravagantly fond of his bird, and is said to have possessed as much affection for his favourite as a parent could have for a child. He had been frequently offered any price for the bird, but refused to part with him, and also declined many offers of """ pounds a year from those who were desirous of making a public exhibition of his astonishing powers. Goldsmith gives another instance of a talented Parrot, who belonged to Henry VII. of England, which is extremely amusing, and no doubt true. The bird was a resident of Westminster palace, and being constantly hung from a casement looking out upon the river Thames, learnt from the passing boatmen a strange variety of incongruous phrases. On one occasion, poor Poll tumbled into the river, and with a singular approach to reason, shouted out at the top of her voice "A OQ boat! a boat! twenty pounds for a boat!" A greedy waterman hearing this, hastily took up the bird and bearing it to the king, demanded the exorbitant sum the frightened bird had promised for its deliverance; a sum which was then much more valuable than now. The astonished monarch refused compliance, but agreed to leave the matter to the bird, who, upon being asked what the ferryman should have, instantly replied, "Give the knave a groat !" Locke, in his excellent and unequalled "Essay upon Human Understanding," gives another instance of an educated and almost rational Parrot, whose powers were certainly of an astonishing character. This bird's reputation had become so great, that the then Regent of Brazil, Prince Maurice, with his suite, visited the bird in his apartment to witness the powers so widely circulated with praise by the neighbours of the owner. The Parrot sat for a short time, silently sur- veying the group; but at last exclaimed in Portuguese, "What a company of white men are here !" His owner, pointing to the Prince, inquired who he was ? "Oh!" said the bird, "some General or other!" The Prince then casually asked him, "From what place do you come ?" He answered instantly, "From Marignan !" "And to whom do you belong?" "To a Portuguese !" was the reply. "What do you do there?" again asked the Regent, astonished, to which the bird responded with great naivete, "I look after chickens !" "You look after chickens," said the Prince, jeeringly. "Yes ! I,. I!" reiterated the Parrot, "and I know well enough how to do it!" and then immediately imitated the clucking call of a brood-hen to her chicks. Another instance of a talented bird, who is now in Philadelphia, in a central portion of the city, who calls for his meals regularly, scolding harshly, if not instantly served, and laughingly calling, in imitation of the mother's voice, the names of the different members of the family, who are daily deceived by its consummate talent of mimicry. This bird also has a very pleasant but noisy song, yet is unacquainted with anything like musical abilities. The food of this variety of birds is of a mixed description. They may be given almost anything, except seasoned animal food, of which the family partake. However, bread and milk, potatoes boiled, cakes, raw or cooked meat without seasoning, scalded Indian-meal, and fruit of every kind may be allowed them, with plenty of water, which they drink immoderately. Hemp-seed may also be given to them occasionally. Their diseases are of the same nature as the Canary and other birds, and the same modes of cure, but stronger in proportion, will suffice to restore them to health. CHAPTER IL DOVES.—Columba. The most common, and the most prized variety of the Pigeon. race, is the Ring, or as it is most frequently styled) the Turtledove. Of all the feathered tribe) none are regarded like them with such holy reverence) from the circumstance of one of the species having been the messenger who returned ton the. Ark, bearing in his bill the token of a subsidence of the waters; and of his being symbolical of the presence of the MOST HIGH. This feeling is carried to such an extent among the farmers of the interior of Pennsylvania, that the slaughter of the common American wild species, the Carolina Pigeon, (Columba Carolinensis,) whose flesh, by the by, is scarcely inferior to that of the Partridge, is esteemed a sacrilegious thing, 