PREFACE. No apology for the production of a work of this kind is necessary, and I give none, except it be the book itself. Those in whose bosoms the seeds of refinement, sown by Education or Nature, have sprang into stately and pleasant trees, will hail the work as having supplied a void too long existing. Those who despise, or affect to despise, the little warblers on whose habits and treatment it discourses, will have a prejudice not to be easily overcome; and one, moreover, which, despising them as I do, I care not to obliterate. Shakspeare decries "the man who bath no music in his soul;" and any other vigorous writer might make a very fine, as well as just invective against him who loves not the music of birds. So far as my own observation has been extended, it has satisfied me that he who listens not • with delight to the melody of the feathered race, has either been rendered a misanthrope by the villany of others, or is at heart, himself, a villain. The best proof of this is the delighted expression visible upon the faces of children, as they linger near the cages of their favourites and drink in every note of their varied song. And what man lives, who, as he passes by the cottage of the humble labourer, and observes the wicker habitation of the well tended Canary suspended at the door, does not form a favourable idea of the taste of those who dwell within its walls. And oh! in the crowded cities, with the hum of business and the rattle of wheels sounding ever around, is it not pleasant to the ear of the sick-man to hear the voice of some lone bird, and fancy as the cool breeze from the open window steals across his feverish brow, that he is out again among the green fields and pleasant valleys, where the tall trees shake their heads in defiance of the winds, and the diamond-gleaming streams run onward with one continual murmur of joy. The dim light that streams into his room seems free and glorious, he imagines his humble apartment by the wild greenwood, and the melancholy warbler is converted into the many voiced choir of the forest. This life is made up of crosses and vexations; and he who can add one mite to the pleasures of existence is a benefactor to the whole human race. It was with the laudable ambition of being thus considered, that induced me to prepare the following little work for publication. If it answer the end for which it is designed, I shall feel myself amply repaid for any trouble I may have undergone in its compilation. Independent of the pleasure arising from the rearing of birds, the profit to the poor man, and the ability which it gives him to purchase many little luxuries, otherwise far beyond his reach, is worthy of consideration. I know one family, a very worthy and honest one by the by, who, from a little expenditure of labour on the part of the females, and which only filled up otherwise unoccupied time, have been enabled to procure a small but very complete library for their amusement and instruction during the long winter evenings. Grave and learned physicians may probably smile, when they learn that a chapter of the work has been devoted to the treatment of the diseases incidental to birds; but the fancier who has hitherto seen his stock die off one by one, without being able to alleviate their sufferings or prevent their destruction, will be grateful for the information conveyed. It is true, we give no descriptions of post niortem anatomical examinations, nor have we records of the cases which we have observed, being content that our readers should take our ipse dixit for the facts we state; but we have aimed to give information fraught with common sense and to the purpose. THE AUTHOR. BOOK I. GRANIVOROUS BIRDS.—Order GRANIVORES. CHAPTER I. General Characteristics of Granivorous Birds. IT will be proper to premise with a few general remarks on the habits and characteristics of this, the most numerous, well as one of the most beautiful orders of the feathered tribe; particularly as the descriptions of the different species will occupy by far the greater portion of the ensuing pages. The granivorous birds live in pairs during the nuptial season, and after that period is terminated, assemble in flocks, or groups, ready for the time of their autumnal migration. Many species are very hardy; others again so tender as to leave the states on the approach of frost; while others only migrate from the intense cold of the polar regions, and remain with us during the whole of the winter. Those of the tender kind reside in this state a short period; reaching us early in May, spending with us only the season of song and incubation, and then departing early in the Autumn for the more congenial temperature of Mexico and the West India isles. The food of this order consists principally of seeds and small grain, that are always shelled before. swallowing; but in the time of incubation, entirely of insects —a fare the easiest to be procured at that period, since but few of the earlier and rarer species of plants have then perfected their seed-vessels. It is, besides, more suitable for the sustenance and nourishment of their tender and delicate young. These would be unable at that immature season to receive and retain nourishment so harsh and difficult of digestion, though at a later portion of their lives such food is better suited to sustain existence. However, seeds of all kinds at all times will answer for any of the tribe, when adult, in ab state of captivity. In the cage they are readily kept to a great age, amply repaying by their melodious songs the attention that they require. They are likewise highly susceptible of education; and can readily be taught numbers of amusing and extremely interesting tricks. The moult of this order of birds occurs in general twice a year; their plumage always being the most beautiful in the nuptial season, though it again changes in the fall to the unostentatious livery of the females. During the moulting season they are always most delicate. It will be readily seen that in breeding birds in captivity, the nighest approach to a state of nature will be the most beneficial for their nurture, and the production of strong and vigorous young; but of this more hereafter in its proper place. DIVISION I. FOREIGN BIRDS. PART I. FINCHES.—Fringillw. CHAPTER I. General Characteristics of the Finch Tribe. OF all the tribes of birds, none, with the exception of the Gallinaceous and the Pigeon order, associate more familiarly and freely with man in a state of nature, and none that evince such docility and such rationality in a state of confinement, as those we now notice. The Finches generally, are either remarkable for their neatness or beauty of plumage, and delightful and varied powers of song. Their variation of feather as regards the sexes is very slight, in many instances the male and female being the same in appearance, or only differing in the breeding season; while the young of most species immediately resemble the adult, or acquire the perfect plumage in the second year. Of all the varieties of birds they are the most prolific, rearing several broods a year; and in fact increase so rapidly, that even accident, Hawks, or the shot-gun of the juvenile sportsmen in. the neighbourhood of the large cities and towns can create no perceptible diminution. In the country, in the vicinity of farm-houses, they are always protected from pursuit by their social and semi-domestic habits; while the farmer's cottage is very often ornamented with cages, containing the species most celebrated for song. Their habits are solitary in the time of incubation; but after that period they associate together and migrate in bands of considerable numbers. They are generally very hardy, and many species, like the Snow- "* bird (F. hyemalis), capable of enduring the utmost severity of cold. Their song is loud and vigorous, and in many instances of a very superior character; consisting of the most beautiful passages, and frequently rising in such delightful trills as to excite the intensest admiration in the listener. They are also very capable of receiving tuition, and will readily perform various feats worthy of the greatest applause. In a state of confinement they are pleasant companions, and may be kept to a great age, frequently twenty years, without difficulty; owing to their peculiar food and their great habits of cleanliness. CHAPTER II. CANARY-BIRD.—Fringilla serinus. SECTION I.--Of the Peculiar Characteristics of the Canary Finch. THE Canary, generally pronounced delicate, and often made so by improper treatment and want of attention, is in reality the hardiest of cage-birds. In the houses of our citizens it is always kept in the warmest rooms, where the artificial atmosphere gradually produces enervation of form and ultimate destruction of life. This results from the high esteem in which this favourite is held, and with considerable force recalls to my mind the old adage of "killing with kindness." A different treatment would be adopted, did the lady or gentleman fancier know how much stronger such a course would make their favourite, in body and song. The system I should recommend would be to suspend their cages in a constantly unheated room, where the temperature would approximate to that of the outer atmosphere, exposing them to the sun and air. This of course should only be done on moderate days; not when the air is but a few degrees above zero. Rainy seasons should likewise be avoided, though cloudy skies are not always to be deprecated as injurious. The Canary-bird is esteemed by all ages, ranks and conditions; and it seems scarcely necessary for me to point out its excellent qualities. Yet, I will venture upon the task. I may leave the sweetness of its song unnoticed, that being well known and appreciated by my readers. The time of singing continues throughout the whole year, with the exception of the moulting seasons, which occurs in spring and autumn, and even then, in strong and healthy birds, their melody is given without intermission. Their plumage, another characteristic, is varied and beautiful; con- sisting of nearly a dozen distinct colours, all of which are of the richest and most gorgeous description, and upon which is founded the various and singular names in vogue among the different bird-fanciers. Their great and almost wonderful aptitude of acquiring knowledge is likewise displayed by the ease with which they perform numerous and astonishing tricks; their ability to articulate words clearly and correctly is. nearly or quite equal to that of the Parrot (Psittacus), and their docility and attachment toward those who have them in charge is of the highest order, and Worthy the greatest admiration. Among the most striking exhibitions of their wonderful qualities, the most curious was one given in London, by a Frenchman, named Le Sieur Roman, who publicly exhibited eight well educated, and I think I may say without flattery, very. talented Canaries. One of these pretended death, and was passed around to the company, by his ingenious owner, without displaying the slightest sign of life. A second was an expert and excellent balancer, performing evolutions while standing upon his head with his claws elevated. A third imitated the peculiar action of a milkmaid, going and returning from market, bearing a small milk-pail upon his shoulder. A fourth mimicked a Venetian demoiselle, looking from the window and nodding to the bystanders, in a manner exceedingly piquante and amusing. A fifth appeared as a soldier, with a minute musket, and mounted guard, in the character of a sentinel. The sixth was likewise a soldier, and sustained the character of a cannonier, wearing a military cap on his head, bearing a fire-lock on his shoulder, and concluding his portion of the performance by taking a match and discharging a little cannon. The same bird, at another time, fell as if wounded by a shot from the enemy; suffered itself to be placed in a little wheel-barrow by its companions and taken to the hospital; and from thence took wing and flew away before the spectators. A seventh gracefully turned a small windmill; and the eighth bird stood amidst a display of various kinds of fireworks without betraying the slightest signs of fear. A second exhibition of this kind, more curious from the greater number of the performers, took place in London during the year  . The ingenious artist and owner was a Monsieur Dijon. The exhibited troupe consisted of twenty-four Canaries, who all performed numerous feats. One of these represented a company of soldiers. They had a small camp, tents and other martial equipage; stood and relieved guard; marched and counter-marched; and went through various evolutions. At last one of the company deserted, was pursued by a guard, brought back, and Seemingly sentenced to be shot. The ,;ourageous little bird submitted, hero-like, to his fate, received the real fire of his -ompanions from their little mechanical muskets, and fell apparently dead before the company. He was then taken up by his companions, placed on a small tumbril and dragged away to be buried. This concluded the performance. About two years since, I, myself, possessed an imported Canary-bird, who displayed equal semi-reasoning powers. His cage was constructed without the usual appendages of seed-box and water-fount; but had a small rail-road placed at each side, at the bottom of one of which was a small car on wheels filled with seed, and at the other a second with water. Whenever my little "Mignonne," as he was called, was hungry, he, with his bill and claws turned a small windlass which slowly and gradually brought the car of seed towards him. When it had arrived within his reach, he placed his foot upon the cord and retained it until satisfied; then letting go his hold he suffered it to sink to its former position. The same course of proceeding followed with the water. This bird was the admiration of a host of friends and visiters, and probably would have continued so till this day, but being hung from my window, on one occasion, the nail by which it was suspended gave way, and the cage was precipitated into the street, instantly killing my talented and docile little companion. There are many instances on record of the intelligence and rationality of the Canary, which are equally extraordinary with the above; but the limits to which I am confined prevent the possibility of a more lengthened notice. To other qualities I may add their wonderful power of imitating various airs; for they have here the correctness and taste of an accomplished musician, keeping time with the most scrupulous exactness and adhering strictly to the melody. They are taught these airs by means of a flageolet, or a serinette, or bird-organ. The manner of tuition I shall consider in a future section. SECT. "".-Of the most suitable season for pairing Canaries, and the best situations for breeding them. The most suitable season for pairing the Canary, commences, in this section of country, in the latter end of February, and from then until the last of March; though they will succeed tolerably well if placed together as late as the middle of April. The former time should however be preferred; the first brood invariably producing the finest songsters, as well as the strongest and hardiest birds. The time may, however, depend upon the season's being favourable, or otherwise. If the latter, it would be advisable to delay their coupling until the weather becomes more genial, for when the frosts are gradually disappearing and the sun begins to shed its warm and enlivening rays, the birds may be placed together, without any fears as to a fatal result, which nearly always occurs should they be paired at the time above mentioned. When your judgment tells you that the proper season has arrived, select your cage, which should be of small size and in a state of perfect cleanliness. At the same time observe carefully that there are no small red-insects in its crevices; as these mites, as they are called, would be productive of much injury. Of these I shall speak more particularly hereafter. Then choose the birds, which you intend to pair, and place them together; for they invariably mate sooner in a small cage than in one of larger dimensions. When they are at first set in company, they generally disagree; but this need not be a matter of alarm to their owner, as the more bitter they are at the first, the sooner they become reconciled, and the more perfect in their connubial felicity. This happy period will soon be discovered by marks of affection in the male towards the female, as by feeding and billing her, pluming her feathers, &c. During this season they should be given the most enlivening as well as the most nourishing food. I would strongly recommend a composition, made after the following recipe, as the best addition to their daily allowance. Take one egg and two or three oysters, each boiled very hard, then chop, or grate them fine, adding some wheat-bread carefully and finely crumbled, and a little swelled Indian and oat-meal in equal quantities, and a small portion (two drachms) of maw-seed. Mix the whole well together. Give the birds a tablespoonful morning and afternoon, keeping the rest in a moist situation for future use. In a week your birds will be paired. This mixture I have found very successful in many instances, and the experience of a host of friends confirms my own. The breeding cage, which must be of good size, so as to allow the birds room for exercise, must now be obtained. The situation is next to be considered; for though wherever the cage may be placed, the birds, prompted by instinct, will commence building their nest, yet success depends entirely upon its favourable position. Should .a cage be placed in a room which is unexposed to sun and air, the young birds, if any are raised at all, will be sickly, weak, and less in size in three weeks than those reared in a more favourable situation would be in ten days, or even a less time. The reader will now see the propriety, in order to secure fine, healthy and vigorous songsters, of placing their cage in an apartment open to the sun-light. The morning sun is far more preferable than the afternoon, for the excessive heat of the latter frequently causes a dangerous disease in the hen-Canary, known to bird-breeders by the name of the "sweating sickness," or causes the hen to become indisposed and leave her nest, thereby blighting the rearer's hopes almost at the instant of gratification. fa* This "sweating sickness" is one of the most direful and disastrous that affects the Canary, for should the bird recover, a species of red-mite appears on the body of the hen, as the sequelus of the disease. These parasites destroy the mother and her interesting brood, clinging to them with the greatest tenacity, feeding on their blood and remaining until life is entirely extinct. Added to these incidents, they are also liable to lay clear and unproductive eggs. All of these things arise solely from their situation. Beside, Canaries are noted for their preferences and antipathies, and their behaviour in a room, or in a cage, is ample evidence of their satisfaction or dislike of the position which they occupy. SECT. III. Of the mode of pairing, and the proper means to procure handsome coloured Birds. The Canary-bird, a native originally of the Canary Isles, from which it derives its name, is, in its natural state, of a buff and olivaceous-green colour, and does not possess a title of the beauty for which the same family is remarkable in its present condition. When you undertake to pair your birds, wishing to produce young ones of a regular and uniform colour, you must be careful not to place those of the same shade together. Should you neglect this precaution, your birds will be less finely marked, for while the colour of the young reared from those of a mealy hue, will be a dusky, dirty white, that, of birds raised from a fine jonque or deep yellow male, with a mealy or pale female, will be of a deep straw colour, as the young in every instance follow more the tint of the father than of the mother-bird. This rule likewise occurs with all the other varieties, and great care should always be taken in the dispositiOn of the old birds; provided you wish to secure young of a peculiar and beautiful shade. When you desire to breed "mottled, or marked" and "splashed birds," the best couples are formed by a regular shaped green, or handsomely marked male, and a bright yellow or jonque hen. The young of these form a complete union between the different shades of the parents, and are frequently the most beautiful of varieties. Should the production of entirely green birds suit your taste, the parents should be entirely green; or if the male be of a very dark shade, it may be associated with a brilliant yellow, or a dark mealy hen, bred from a former admixture of the same varieties. This association produces the rare and extremely favourite sort known under the appellation of "Cinnamon or Filmuth-birds." When your wish is for full coloured birds, without the slightest mark, a large and finely formed mealy hen should be placed with a deep coloured jonque cock. Should you prefer a very deep yellow, your parent birds must be two close feathered yellow ones, of the largest size and strength, as if they be not, the young, though of the richest colour, will be small and weak. This association, however, produces the finest coloured birds of all the varieties. In breeding "top-knot" birds, the male only should have the crest, for were it worn by both, the young raised would be of that odious character known to dealers by the quaint title of "bald-heads." SECT. IV.—On the materials for building and tlw best nests to be procured. In the selection of materials for nests, the greatest care should be observed in regard to their cleanliness; for on that requisite depends entirely the health and vigour of the young. Many articles are given to the Canary for the purpose of building, but nothing answers the purpose so well as Cow's or Deer's hair. This should be well washed, to free it from dust or insects of any description, and then carefully dried in the sun.• The material may be preserved after the first use, and on again being washed and dried, will answer equally as well for succeeding nests, during the season. The boxes, in which the birds are to build, should be composed of basket of wicker-work, with wire-work bottoms, This allows any particles of dust which may collect to fall through; and it prevents the breeding of those small red-mites, who prey upon, and in a very short time generally destroy, the young birds. In preparing the breeding-cage the bottom should be covered with fine red of silver sand, the former is the most preferable, or gravel, well dried, and laid to a considerable depth along the whole floor, This little precaution will often save the life of a most valuable bird, which the hen, in flying from the nest, might accidentally pull after her, and which, if it fell nn the hard board, would certainly be killed. It is better, in placing your birds in the gage at first, to give them but one breeding-box, as they are frequently puzzled to make a choice, and carry the materials For building from one to the other; a circumstance which is always a loss of time, and a disappointment to the breeder. When the first nest is finished, and the den commences sitting, the other box may be inserted; although I think it would be advisable to defer it until after the young ire hatched, and indeed recommend the naking of the nest by the raiser himself For the second brood, as it preserves the nirds from unnecessary fatigue, and sufFers them to commence operations much sooner. The shape should approach as nearly as possible to that of the one made by the Canaries themselves; though that is of little consequence, as if it be not agreeable, they will soon alter it to suit :heir taste. SECT. V.-Of the most proper food for, and directions for feeding Canaries in the breeding season. The next step for the bird fancier to observe, is to obtain proper food for the old birds, while engaged in the sustenance of their callow young. As I before remarked, the nearest approach to a state of nature will be productive of the most beneficial results. The following directions must be closely observed. Take an egg and boil it very hard, then grate it through a coarse grater, such a one as is used for the purpose of preparing horse-radish (and which must be washed very clean before using it) will best answer the object; then take a small piece of wheaten bread, baked the day before, about the same size as the egg, and grate it in the same manner; add to this a table-spoonful of fresh Indian meal and mix the whole very closely together, making it finer with the hand; after which process pass it through the grater two or three times. It may then be given to the birds. As bread and butter, or even Turkey, is an excellent food to the human species in its place, so is this to the Canary; but as were we confined to the most delicious articles in existence as a daily food, we should soon become cloyed or disgusted, and desire a change—so is it with the birds. Take every two or three days a nice piece of clean, stale, wheaten bread, without its crust, which has been soaked in water, squeeze out all the moisture, and pour over the whole a little fresh milk. Of this give a small portion, a table-spoonful at a time, to your feathered charge. They should also have given to them, whenever they can be obtained, fresh cabbage-leaves, which are the most useful and nutritious thing they can eat, at least two or three times a-day; and beside this, fresh chick-weed or salad, when in season. A It is a frequent circumstance with persons commencing the rearing of Canaries, without fully understanding the necessary rules to be observed in their management, to meet so many crosses and such frequent, and, as they imagine, causeless disappointments, to yield their attempts in utter hopelessness, attributing faults to the birds, and blaming dealers for the failure which results alone from their own negligence or inexperience. The principal reason for the loss of young birds, are their either being fed too much, or too little, or at irregular times, and without paying the proper attention whether the food given is, or is not, in season. For an example, chick-weed or salad, when fully matured, are excellent articles; but, if given too early in the spring, they become of a poisonous nature, and frequently cause the destruction of a whole aviary. These should not be given before the last of May, when their cold and acrid juices are rendered innocuous, by the then constant heat of the sun. Whenever your young birds are fully able to feed and take care of themselves, which circumstance may readily be discovered by the want of attention on the part of the parents, or the refusal of the young to be so nourished any longer, they may be taken from the breeding-cage and placed off in another receptacle. Their proper food, which should be regularly given them, is a chopped or grated egg, with bread and Indian-meal, with the addition of about -"; oz. of maw, and some ground or bruised rape-seed. When they arrive at the age of six or seven weeks, and their bill becomes hard, they will be able to crack hard seed, which may, however, be kept in their cage before that time arrives. They should then have all the varieties, viz. rape, canary, yellow and hemp-seeds, but well mixed together, given to them, taking at the same time the greatest care that fresh seed be placed in their boxes at least every other day. The hemp-seed should always be bruised. It is frequently a practice with some persons, to feed their Canaries entirely on rape-seed, under the foolish delusion of its producing length of life. This ridiculous mode of sustenance invariably causes them to become so thin and weak that the first, and in many cases what would only be a slight illness, easily sweeps them off; and most particularly during the moulting season. Another evil, which it is difficult to guard against, is, when you place your old birds in the cage to breed and give them soft food, they sometimes gorge themselves to such a degree as to swell, and die off very rapidly. This soft food is not entirely necessary for them, nor should it be given to them without anything else. They should always have, when breeding, their seed-box well supplied with canary, hemp and rape, and now and then a little lettuce-seed, which acts upon them medicinally, and purges them from all the foul humours which may have generated in their delicate systems during the long and arduous winter season. -The breeding, gentle reader, being by far the most critical and dangerous portion in the life of the Canary, and requiring the most careful and judicious and difficult management, deserves from me the most particular and lucid directions. The hen sits about thirteen, but most generally fourteen and sometimes even fifteen days. The time, however, depends wholly upon the season, and the state of the out-door atmosphere at that interesting period; in clear, fine and warm weather, the young are much sooner produced than if the air be cold, raw and unpleasant. Two days before the young are hatched, it becomes highly necessary to clean the perches of the cage thoroughly, fill the box with fresh mixed seed and the fountain or cup with new water; in order that the old birds may not be approached or disturbed at that critical juncture. The "* soft mixture, before recommended, must now be given to them regularly three times a day, and also the mixed bird-seed every morning, with the addition of a little chick-weed, or cabbage or lettuce leaves. The former must be thoroughly cleaned from any dirt which may adhere to it, and from the large rank leaves, which are always indigestible, coarse, and too often very injurious. In the months of July and August, the birds may be given ripe plantain or salad leaves, feeding them always about six o'clock in the morning, twelve at noon, and finally five in the afternoon. Should you make the hours of feeding an hour later or earlier it will make no material -difference, provided the same course on each and • every succeeding day is strictly observed. The great requisite is regularity. During the hot and enervating summer months, they require more particular, and in fact, almost constant attention; the soft food which is put in the cage in the morn- ing, frequently turning sour before they are fed the second time. The remains should, however, always be taken away and replaced with fresh food of the same kind at each succeeding feed. The chick-weed, lettuce or cabbage also becomes wilted or withered, and is thus retidered unfit for use. Should the old ones be suffered to feed their young on this decayed and nauseous substance, the growth of the chicks will be delayed, and they, instead of becoming regular, straight, taper and strong birds, will be weak, large bellied, and never worth half the price or esteem they would otherwise obtain. They should also have at this season, lettuce and wild plantain-seed, when it can be obtained, upon the medicinal qualities of which, I have before commented. You must also carefully note the sort of food the old birds most prefer, and then allow them a greater portion of that peculiar kind; for the less the young are fed on the soft and green food the better, as they advance in growth the faster, which is finer for their health and more suited to ensure their future worth. Because from this food solely arises the surfeit or swelling I have just described, and which may readily be prevented by adhering to the above simple rules. A piece of coarse stick-liquorice should occasionally be placed in their water founts; this at the same time giving a pleasant flavour to the water, and acting as an alterative on the systems of the birds. During the continuance of warm weather a pan of water should be placed in their cages once every day, that the birds may bathe and wash; an amusement of which they are extremely fond, and which at the same time greatly refreshes them. Fresh water should also, during the hot months, be put in their fountains two or three times a day; as they drink oftener at that season than at any other. In cold weather once a day will suffice. SECT. VI.—Directions for making the German Paste, and for rearing the young by hand. Should you desire, either for the purpose of strengthening your old birds or to gain time in the short season of breeding, to bring up your young birds by hand, it will be first necessary to observe whether they are of sufficient age to be removed from the parental care; since they will, in case the attempt be made at too early a season, pine away and most probably die. The last, however, seldom happens. But on the reverse, they must not be left too long with the old ones, as they then become perverse, obstinate and sullen, and also extremely difficult to feed. The time of removal must be left entirely to the discretion of the fancier, though I would recommend it to be done when the birds are from twelve to fifteen days old. Should you succeed, as with common attention you will, your young ones will be rendered remarkably docile and affectionate. The birds that you intend to rear in this manner should be well fledged or feathered, and when taken from the tender protection of the mother, should be placed in a rather dark and secluded situation, (which treatment has the effect of rendering the subject of it forgetful of the old ones,) and kept in a warm box, lined with cotton, or some substance of a like nature. There are some exceptions to this rule, which occasionally occur; as when from the heavy task of breeding, the hen is sometimes taken sick. Then it behoves the fancier immediately to remove the young, as she will be utterly unable to attend to them and they fall ill and die. Consequently, it becomes necessary to bring them up by hand, unless you may have another hen under whom they can be placed. It also frequently happens that a hen is so careless of her young, and feeds them so seldom, that unless they be taken from her, they will soon perish from neglect and want of food. When this happens, the young must be taken away immediately, or in a short time they will become past recovery. The hen also often forsakes the young when eight or ten days old, or frequently abuses them by plucking their downy young feathers from them to line another nest; even when she has every thing which is proper for that purpose around her. Whenever this fact is discovered, the young must be removed and reared at once by hand, or. they will soon become victims to her savage conduct. But unless there is some such occasion, they should always be left with the parents until the time before mentioned. When you have concluded to remove them, the following composition, entitled "German Paste," must be made for and given to them, as hereafter stated. When carefully made and the directions for its keeping observed, it will continue fit for use at least two weeks. . Recipe for making "German Paste." "In a large mortar, or on an even table, you must bruise, with a rolling-pin, a pint or quart of rape, in such a manner that you may blow the chaff away; to this bruised seed add a piece of bread, reducing them to powder; mix these together, and put them in an oak box, which should be kept from the sun. You may give them a tea-spoonful of this powder, with the addition of a little hard yolk of egg, and a few drops of water; and thus you will have prepared in a few minutes excellent food for your young birds. This powder must not be kept longer than twenty days, as it then becomes unfit for use, the rape-seed turning sour, so that when water is put to it, it smells like mustard." At the expiration of two weeks, should any of the powder above mentioned be left, it may be given to the old birds dry, as it is then equally nutritious, or more so than the unshelled seed, and cannot in any wise do them injury. I myself prefer making a small quantity of this paste, every day, since I find the young grow more rapidly under such treatment. During the first three or four days after they are taken from the care of the parent birds, they should be fed on stale sponge-cake, rubbed to powder, with the addition of the hard-boiled white of an egg. The yolk should not now be given to them, as it is too heating, and can only do injury. Add a little water, which will make this up into a thick paste; not too much, for the composition will then be too liquid and digest so rapidly as to be of very little use to the bird. When your young birds get to be three or four days old, and are acquiring strength and vigour, a small quantity of rape-seed, over which boiling water has been poured, " may be added to the composition already described. The seed need not be bruised, as they are then capable of digesting them. A sweet almond or two, chopped fine, with a small proportion of chick-weed seed, may occasionally be given to them. The latter is very requisite for them, when the weather is hot and dry, at least twice a day. Should you observe strictly this prescribed mode of feeding, the certainty of your birds thriving is so great, that it will be impossible to lose one in fifty. When your young birds first commence feeding themselves, should any of them fall ill, they must be .treated according to the following directions. Take three tablespoonsful of hemp-seed, first carefully washed in cold water, bruise it in a mortar, immediately placing it in fresh cold water a second time, from which take it again and place it in a fragment of clean linen, then squeeze the entire juice of the contents into the last used water through the cloth. This forms a draught called by fanciers "milk of hemp-seed;" which is extremely strengthening and nourishing to. young birds. The water fount should always be removed before placing the medicine in the cage. When you bring up birds by hand, they require frequent feeding, and should be attended to every two hours at farthest. To ensure complete and permanent success, there is no other thing so absolutely necessary as regularity, by which I mean the observing the utmost strictness in keeping to the same hours of feeding every day; these hours being as frequent as possible. They should be fed with a small piece of sharpened wood, and at the time of feeding, allowed as much as they will eat, which is generally four or five mouthfuls. It will be easy to perceive when they are fully satisfied, as they then refuse to open their mouths, at which time the operation should cease, as were the feeder to force them to swallow more, it would have the effect not only of dis- tending their craws, which would make them unhandsome birds hereafter, but likewise give them a disease called the "surfeit," which arises in consequence of a weakness of their digestive powers at that early period of their lives. This may too often prove fatal. When they get to be three weeks or a month old, you may discontinue feeding in the above manner, for they will then be able to attend to themselves; but this must be done for at least the time stated. The young birds should at first be put in a cage without perches; for if not, they will be apt to strain, or otherwise injure themselves, from an ambitious peculiarity belonging to all the feathered tribe—the desire to reach an elevated position. At this time I would recommend the fancier to place a little rape and canary-seed in the cage; as the birds cannot too soon learn to feed on those articles, nor in fact commence to feed at all; but the seeds should be scalded previous, or else the outer shells would be difficult for their tender bills to break. When you see that they have gained sufficient strength, but not before, you may gradually remove the soft food entirely from them, and leave them nothing at last but rape, yellow, millet and canary-seed. They should likewise have placed in their boxes or founts, but only occasionally, a small portion of hemp-seed, bruised with a roller, which is nutritious at all times if given sparingly, but especially the best for them in the winter season. It has long been, and still continues a matter of contention among professional bird-fanciers—whether birds brought up by hand, or those reared from the nest, are the strongest and best songsters? Some assert the former, predicating their position on the extraordinary attention they receive from the rearer; while others insist that those raised by the birds are the most preferable. My own opinion is in favour of the hand-raised birds, which not only receive more care, and consequently should be the most vigorous, but they are likewise rendered far more docile and affectionate by the operation. Besides, it often occurs that young birds solely attended by the parents, should the old ones fall sick during the time of breeding, which is a frequent occurrence, become afflicted with a kind of consumption, analogous to that which is common to the human species. The parents, likewise, frequently have five or six young birds in one nest under their care, and being severely fatigued in providing and carrying food for so many, often neglect and sometimes even forsake them. Of course, even in the former instance, the young become feeble and very often die. It also becomes a matter of great relief to the adults when the birds are taken from them at ten or twelve days old, and they live much longer than when they have the whole task of rearing them themselves. Besides, it is a matter of greater profit to the breeder, since the parents the sooner gather strength, and are capable of raising a greater number of birds in a season. The young, as I before said, likewise become more familiar, and are far less apt to die during the time of moulting. The quantity of birds gained by this treatment is, on the average, at the least one more brood of young to every pair of adults; and these can, without fatiguing or doing themselves the slightest injury, raise four and sometimes even five nests in one summer; the next season being as fully able and in as good a position to breed, as they were at the commencement of the one previous. Should a frosty day or two occur when the young are first hatched, the warmth of the apartment in which they are situated must be increased, to prevent any fatal results; and should there be any prospect of a long continuance of cold weather, the pairs that have not then laid should be withdrawn from the breeding cages. This last should only be done when it promises to be very severe. The first and second nests are always the best, solely for the reason of their being better attended to and fed by the parents than any subsequent broods, and perforce must be the strongest and most vigorous birds. These first broods have also the moult occurring during more congenial months, at the latest in June or July, while the later-produced birds do so during the generally cold and raw seasons of October and November. Young birds may be moulted singly, which some prefer, or in a fly, (large cage,) or an airy, warm room. If in a cage, not more than ten or at the outside twelve birds should be placed together, which number may be associated without the slightest injury, which answers nearly or equally as well as keeping them separately; for if there be more, disease and death in a heavy degree will certainly be the result. To those who intend rearing birds, nothing will be found 'so beneficial as the keeping a book, in which should be carefully noted the number of the cage, when the first egg is laid, the commencement of the hen's sitting, and the time the young should be hatched. Those who observe these rules will never have cause to regret it; as they will be provided for all contingencies, and know when and how soon to commence providing for the coming young ones. Breeding birds seldom if ever live for a longer period of time than twelve years; while others, who are kept for the sole enjoyment of their song, have been frequently known to attain the age of twenty years and upwards. SECT. VII.—On the distinguishing characteristics of the sexes in Canaries. The readiest, though till now almost unknown method of discovering whether a bird is a male or a female, is by taking it in your hand, holding it gently, and then blowing apart the feathers on the abdomen. In the male, the lower portion of the body gradually tapers off toward the tail, and is slender, neat and close feathered; while the breast-bone is larger and more pointed than in the female, in whom that portion is rather the reverse, the distance from the breast-bone to the tail greater, and the whole appearance of the abdomen fuller and more rounded. With a little practice, and a comparison of the different sexes, the fancier will be enabled to judge of a bird's gender at all seasons, and will not fail, so certain is the system, once in a hundred instances. This is a new method, now for the first time published. The older and more common plan of discovering the sexes, is by the colours of the birds. The male always being of a richer and brighter hue under the throat, and wearing a streak of brilliant yellow over the eye. His head is likewise larger, wider and much longer than the female's, and he has always a greater brilliancy of plumage. His legs are thicker and stronger, and his feet and claws are of larger proportions. Some fanciers only distinguish them when they commence to sing, or rather warble; this all the young males, or a majority of them, generally do when they first commence to peck hard seed, which happens at the age of a month; but when they have passed their first moult they strike their notes with considerable precision and clearness. They should then, to prevent mistakes, be separated, the males placed in one cage and the females in another, as the sexes become known. The males are also much sprightlier in action, quicker and more agile in their motions, and always more taper, graceful and slender in proportions than the female. To test the difference of appearance between the male and female, place two mealy birds, of whose sexes you are aware, in a cage together; you will then see the variation in colour, form and figure; and may readily perceive and understand the characteristics of each. Some fanciers pretend to tell the sexes by the brightness of the colour on the saddle of the bird and on the shoulders of the wings: now all of these rules may be observed in connection with each other, but the first rule that we have given, is, by far, the most certain. The young fancier will now be easily able to select his birds, as the remarks before mentioned will apply in all cases; but if he depends wholly upon colour in making his selection, he may, in some few instances, be liable to mistake, as it sometimes occurs that the male and female so closely resemble each other in outer appearance and plumage, as to require an old and experienced judge to detect the difference. SECT. VIII.—On the teaching Canaries an artificial system of song. Among the various songsters of the feathered tribe, none is so much a favourite, nor so generally esteemed for the sweetness, regularity and power of his song as the Canary-bird. Among his many excellent qualities, one of the most striking perhaps, is his singular talent of imitation, and his facility in acquiring all the different changes and variations of an air of music; but this only occurs when young, and before his taste is formed for the notes given to him by nature. The system of tuition, which is either by a flageolet, or most commonly by a serinette or bird-organ, is very simple, and will require but little of the fancier's time and attention. By these instruments they will easily learn whole tunes. Among the different methods pursued for this purpose, I would recommend the following as the " most suitable and best calculated to effect the desired end. In from ten days to two weeks after your bird commences to feed himself, first putting him in a separate cage, remove him from all society of his kind, to some close apartment, where it will be impossible for him to hear the whistle of any other bird. You may do this at an earlier period, if you hear him make any attempts at his natural song. His cage should then be covered with a thin linen cloth, for a week to ten days, before you commence operations, in order to make him as solitary and as tame as possible. The flageolet or the bird-organ may now be used. Neither of these instruments must be too shrill or harsh; as the bird will invariably follow in the same tone, which will cause in him so great an exertion of the lungs, that death will in all probability be induced. When fifteen days have elapsed, it will become necessary to substitute a piece of thick red or green flannel, for the thin linen cloth, with the former of which he must remain covered until he is fully perfect in the air that you are labouring to teach him. The best time of feeding him during this period, is at night; since then he will not become alarmed, or have his mind diverted from the tune which you may wish to play to him, during the following day. Some fanciers endeavour to learn their little favourites a number of airs; but it is by far the best system to teach them only one; for however talented the birds may be, they will be apt to confound the different tunes, which would be a great disappointment. The time of learning depends entirely upon the calibre of the bird; a sprightly, active one generally becoming perfect in his lesson in two or three months, while others are sometimes as long as six months. In a task of this kind, the fancier should never be discouraged; as if he observes the rules laid down at first he is sure of ultimate success. Patience is the best requisite, the observance of which will produce for the owner, a valuable, interesting and curious bird. I before remarked that the organ or flageolet should be soft and mellow in its tune, for were it harsh, independent of the danger to the lungs of the bird, it has in my opinion a greater evil, since the bird always closely imitates even the faults of the instrument. The time for giving the lessons should be thus divided: two lessons in the morning as soon as you rise, one or two at different hours of the day, and two at a late hour in the afternoon, which last, with the morning lessons, are always most profitable to the bird. At each lesson it will be necessary to repeat the same tune several times, playing it slowly and always entirely through, so that the student may be enabled to catch every note. The birds best adapted for this purpose, as it requires some strength to enable them to pass through its apparent severity, are the mealy, splashed or green Canaries, who are always more powerful than the dark yellows or :longues, these being the weakest, although the handsomest of their race. You must never attempt to teach more than one in the same apartment, as they will always, after your departure, practise upon the air they have heard, and are sure to lead each other into a wrong conception of the tune. This is an evil which it is almost impossible, or at least very difficult and troublesome, to rectify. SECT. IX.—On the necessary treatment for sullen and savage male-birds. It is a frequent occurrence to the bird-fancier who attends largely to the propagation of the Canary, to find in his aviary occasionally some sullen, unsociable and unmanageable cock-birds. These are readily distinguished by their different behaviour, when in full health, from the rest of the tribe; being thoughtful and even very sad and melancholy in appearance, singing very rarely, and when attempting to sing, having their song short and without any of the natural sweetness of the tribe. When you observe this alteration in any of your young birds, immediately remedy it by placing them in a room, where they will have an opportunity of imitating the manners and melody of old, high spirited and courageous cock-birds of fine song, or else your obstinate bird will be worth nothing. The advantage, however, which he receives, under the tuition of fine birds, is extremely great; as by degrees he acquires the habits, manners and song of the other, until his character at last becomes entirely changed. If, when you happen to pair a hen with a cock-bird of this hypochondriacal character, she should by any accident become sick and die, your male bird will, in nine out of ten cases, pine away and follow her, inconsolable for the loss of his mate, whose death will bring back all his former character. It occasionally happens that you will have in your collection, a cock-bird of an extraordinary savage temper, who, upon the introduction of a hen into his cage, will fall upon and immediately kill her. When this happens, the best remedy will be to take a hen a year or two older than the cock, and one of the same age with him, or a year younger, which birds must have been kept together for some time previous, and have become perfectly sociable and familiar with each other. When the season for breeding arrives and you wish to pair your savage, place the hens in a very large breeding-cage, and when they have become perfectly used to it, and regard it as their property, turn him in with them. This will be scarcely done before he will attempt to conquer or kill the hens; but they having room to fly about, will together soon conquer and reduce him to entire submission. He will then immediately mate with them, and ever after be a sociable and friendly bird. The union will also be productive of much profit to the fancier, as these forced matches always result in the production of a by . far greater number of young birds, than those do whose coupling was attended with little or no difficulty. It sometimes happens that you will have a cock-bird who, as soon as the hen lays, will very unnaturally break and eat the egg, and again another who will, immediately upon their hatching, throw the young from the nest, and then pull and drag them with his bill around the cage until they are dead. In the first instance, the following system will soon terminate his egg-eating propensities, which arise either from a want of such kind of food, or a desire to possess the constant society of the hen. You should take a clear egg, which must be carefully blown and then filled with mustard; the newly laid egg must then be taken out of the box and the other inserted in its stead. The cock-bird will, on discovering it, immediately attempt to suck it, an attempt which I will warrant he will never dream of again. If you, out of tenderness for him, would prefer a milder course, take him from the hen and put him in a separate cage near her, until she has done laying, which always happens by eight o'clock in the morning; then take her egg from the nest, replacing it with an ivory one. After this the bird may be returned to its old locality. This separation should be repeated every night, returning him each time when you have removed the egg, until the hen has completed her quantity; but then he must be kept from her until her brood is hatched, and the young able to fly about. This is of course effectual; but the first mode is the most simple and the most certain. Care should be taken of the eggs removed from the bird, and a box kept expressly for the purpose of retaining them safe. This should have different apartments, if you have more than one pair, each of which should be numbered with the number of the cage to which the eggs belong, and be filled with bran, wool, hair or tow, to prevent them from becoming cracked or broken. It sometimes occurs that you will find a hen, who, upon your removing her eggs, will immediately forsake her nest. When this happens, you will have to run the risk of your cock-bird. The male Canary, in the course of the breeding season, and when the hen has young ones, will sometimes fall sick. The most proper method is to remove him from the cage, and give him a little repose for a week or ten days; as his illness may probably arise from his being fed upon the rich, soft food intended for the young; such as chopped egg, green meat, &c. &c. After this period, during which he must be fed upon hard seed, you may replace him in his former situation with the hen; but should he fall sick a second time, he must be again removed, and totally, from the female; as the married life is not congenial to his health, and he will answer better as a song-bird than a breeder. The hen should be treated in nearly the same manner when in the same circumstances, her eggs removed from her, and placed under some other sitting hen to be hatched, or the young ones put under one who has young and can attend to theni. One of the most dangerous accidents to which the hen Canary is liable, is to be what fanciers call "egg-bound." When this happens, she immediately falls off her perch upon her back, and often dies before the fact of her sickness is discovered. The proper treatment is to take her at once from the cage or room, and gently rub the lower part of her abdomen with a little sweet almond or olive oil, which will have the effect of enabling her to dis- charge her egg by the relaxation caused by the application. The best thing, however, in this case, is prevention, which may easily be done by keeping a large piece of mortar in the cage, at which the hen may peck at all times, and which will always enable her to lay her eggs without any difficulty. The hen Canary is likewise subject to another disease of the nature of a fever, which arises from her close confinement on her warm nest. The heat of her body is oftentimes so great as to stifle her young ones, especially if the illness attacks her before the young ones are a week old. The best method then is, to take and place them under another hen, if there happens to be one who at that time has nestlings; if not, you will have to run the risk. The hen will then be able to repose herself, which will at once remove the disease. It sometimes occurs that the hen will not sit when she has laid her full complement of eggs; this indisposition to attend to her maternal duties, frequently arises from the eggs, being clear and unproductive, which may easily be found out by holding them up to the light. If they be bad, they may be thrown away as useless; but if good, they may be placed under another, or divided between two hens, to be hatched. When your Canary happens to break his leg in the cage, which sometimes occurs from the length of his nails or claws catching in some inequality in the perch, he should be put in a small cage without any perches, until it becomes well. The best plan, however, is to examine your birds occasionally, and when you find their claws too long, to cut the tips of them off with a sharp pair of scissors. The perches must also be perfectly smooth, round and strong, and when placed in the back of the cage, should be sharpened down to a fine point, which should be inserted in a hole made by a blunt awl. This will prevent the breeding of insects around it, who always seek such situations, concealing themselves from observation between the perch and the back, whenever the bar, as it most usually is, is fastened with wire: The hole, however, must never go entirely through the wood. Whenever you have two, nests of birds in one cage, or hatched at the same time in a room, some of which are stronger than the others, which generally happens from the first laid eggs producing the first young, place the strong of the one with the strong of the other, and the weak with the weak in a like manner of the other nest. This is a necessary proceeding, otherwise the strong would get all the food from the younger birds, who would consequently perish. As every breeder is desirous of obtaining the greatest possible number of birds in the course of a season, it would be advisable when you happen to have a strong and vigorous male bird, who is readily told by his loud singing at frequent intervals during the day, and his constant activity, to associate him with two females. To do this successfully, it will be necessary to have two apartments in your breeding-cage, which can be done by having a division in the middle, with a small door through which the cock-bird can pass, as the several wants of his parties require his assistance. The hens, whenever this system is intended, should always be placed in the same cage together, for sometime before, and gradually accustomed to each other's society, to prevent the possibility of disagreement. But, by far the most pleasant and agreeable method of breeding birds, as it always occasions less trouble, and is productive of greater enjoyment than cage rearing, is that of taking a small room, which should either open on the south or east, and in which should be placed six handsome strong jonque, or dark yellow male birds, with double the number of females; a system of raising young which is nearly always successful. The room should have a table in the centre, well supplied with deer's or cow's hair, moss and wool, or tow, for the making of nests, the seeds and food of different kinds most suitable at that season, and water in fountains and pans, the first for drinking, the last for bathing. The floor should be entirely covered with fine red gravel or coarse sand, and neat round perches be run from one side of the room to another, or the limbs of a dead tree placed in various positions for them to perch upon. They should also have fastened in some part of the room, where it will be easy of access, pieces of the bones of the "Osepia or Cuttle-fish;" a thing which Canaries should never be without at any season of the year, much less in the breeding season. This can be obtained constantly at the various seed-warehouses of the city, or in country towns at the various apothecary shops. The window of the room should be fitted with a neat wire-work bow on the outside, with perches for the birds to sit, for the purpose of sunning and airing themselves, and the window-sash raised whenever the weather is warm, clear and fine. The nest boxes, in which baskets should be inserted, should be hung up in various parts of the room against the wall, in various situations, so that the birds may make choice for themselves, and should be one in number for every female bird in the apartment, to enable the birds to select those which they deem most preferable for occupation. SECT. X. General remarks upon breeding birds. The number of nests made by the Canary-bird in a season, depends almost entirely upon the strength and character of the male and female, and on the modes pursued by the fancier. Some make and rear "* but two, while others build three or four, and frequently, under judicious management, as many as six in a single spring and summer, producing from four to six eggs in each nest. When the fancier is possessed of a strong stock of birds, by careful feeding and close attention, he will readily render them almost beyond price, as each pair will, in such case, produce from twenty to thirty, and sometimes even thirty-five eggs, in the course of the breeding months. The best mode of ascertaining the goodness of eggs, is, after the hen has set for a week, to take and place them betwixt your eye and the light. Those which are fit to be continued under the hen will appear thick, opaque and muddled, while the bad will be perfectly translucent. The latter may then be thrown away, and the good either given to another hen, or restored, with the addition from another nest of the wanting number, to their former situation. This will be found the most certain method of testing the character of eggs. When your hen has ceased laying every morning, examine the nest and take out the egg, replacing it with one made of ivory; but as soon as she has laid her full quantity, which is generally five or six, take away the ivory egg and return the whole of her eggs to their former situation. The hen will then commence sitting, and in due time hatch all the young together; which, were the eggs left in the nest, she would not do except at intervals of several days; and then the first hatched birds would probably be stifled to death by the mother's continuing on the nest to hatch the rest. The hen always lays before eight o'clock in the morning. If she be not regular in this process, she is certain to fall sick and require the attention given to egg-bound birds, [see p. "",] which she should immediately have, to prevent fatal consequences. Whenever you remove eggs from the nest, be careful not to fracture them, which is frequently done by the very fear of doing so, in the persons attending to them, who let them fall and break from their not holding them in a careful manner. The best way of taking them from the nest, is to seize each with the thumb and fore-finger, holding it tightly and without any tremor, as in that case you are certain to fracture them, or with a thin silver-spoon, and then place them in the box before mentioned. A strange contrariety of opinion is expressed by the different professional bird-fanciers upon the following points. Whether a hen Canary experiences a greater portion of fatigue in rearing and feeding her young until they are able to fly; or in being kept for the purpose of constant laying, and having her eggs hatched and attended to by different birds? Some hastily assert that the laying hen becomes the weakest, while others more sagely declare that the bird who has the constant care of her eggs and young, for "o long a period of time, becomes the most enfeebled. My own opinion, founded on long experience, is decidedly in favour of the latter conclusion, for which I give the bllowing reasons. The bird in the first ?lace has to lay her full complement of eggs, on which she must set from fourteen to fifteen days, during which time she is leprived of exercise and often very scantily "ed by the male; and again, when the young ire produced, she has the constant labour Df providing for them and herself, for at east three, and sometimes four, weeks more. She is then consequently more injured than the other hen, who has none Df this fatigue, and is enabled to fly about and retain her strength, for the sole and comparatively trifling labour of laying. When your hen is, as I before remarked, Scantily fed by the male, or he refuses, or aeglects to attend to her and the young, rou will see her leave her nest and beat lim for his unhusband-like behaviour, and then proceed, compelling him to assist, to gather the best and most nourishing food for her neglected offspring. It is always a matter of kindness when your bird has hatched her first nest, and wishes to go to laying again, to make her second nest for her yourself; she will then, if you allow her a little extra moss and hair, without fatiguing herself, finish it to her liking. After she has again done laying, allow her to set on her eggs for six or seven days, all that are then translucent may be thrown away as worthless, and replaced with others of the same age from another nest; while those of a dark, heavy colour should be retained, or put in the nest of another hen to be hatched and brought up. This last should always be done when your hen is a strong and favourite bird. After this examination and separation, the hen should be suffered to enjoy a few days repose in a separate cage. When you consider that she has fully rested herself, she may be returned to her former situation and given another nest, which must likewise be made for her by yourself; and when she has again laid her proportion and has sat upon them for a week, you may take them away and replace them with the eggs of some other hen within a day or two of hatching. These young ones will then be immediately produced, and should be fed by her until they are fourteen days old, and then be taken from her and brought up by hand. The hen should then again be rested, and for a little longer time than before, as she will be the stronger for it in the end. After this last operation, your hen may have a third nest given her, observing at the same time the former rule, which you may allow her to keep herself, hatching Out her own eggs and rearing the young until they are able to fly; or you may follow the last mentioned system a second time, and still continue her on breeding; but if you are satisfied with the quantity of young ones she has given you, you may remove her and her mate into a small cage, where they can repose themselveE thoroughly and gain a sufficiency ol strength to enable them to pass through the moulting season safely. Or you may again allow them to rear another nest ol birds themselves, which they will readily do, and then they may be finally separated. These methods are calculated in nowisE to injure the birds, but rather the reverse; and it is a matter of well authenticated fact, that a pair of birds treated in this manner, will live longer and do more service to their owner, than a pair who have been allowed to go on regularly. These last will often, if over fatigued in the breeding, die as soon as the moulting season has commenced. SECT. XI.—On the most prevalent diseases which attack Canaries, and the modes of prevention and cure. In the observance of the various sorts of diseases to which the Canary-bird is subject, the fancier can only have recourse to outward signs, and thus judge of the affection within. These are never very difficult to discover, as the Canaries invariably display, in the coming on of sickness, strong and easily-noted symptoms. We shall go on, however, and describe the different kinds, with their appropriate treatment. SURFEIT. This is a dangerous disease, nearly always occurring in young birds, when from the age of a month to six weeks, and is caused by their being fed almost entirely by the parents on the rich food partially recommended for the breeding season. The symptoms of the affection are easily discerned. The abdomen of the patient becomes frightfully enlarged, " and of a dark, sanguineous hue; the veins swell and appear distended with blood, presenting a varicose appearance; while the bowels of the affected bird partially protrude, forming complete prolapsus ani. When your bird is in this condition, which you will first notice by his sitting on his perch, or the ground, with his feathers swelled out, take him up for examination, which may easily be done, by blowing apart with your mouth the feathers from his stomach. If he be diseased, immediately place a small piece of alum in his water-fount, replacing his water every day on the same piece of alum for at least a whole week; if the alum be dissolved entirely in the meantime, replace it by another fragment. This will frequently be found thoroughly efficacious. Another apparently very simple though excellent remedy, is to place a piece of rusty iron in the fount of the bird. Another mode is to empty the water pan of the sick bird during the night, and refill it in the morn- ing with water, in which some common salt has been placed. As soon as the bird has drank of the contents several times, you may again give him fresh water. If these prescriptions succeed, which they generally do, if given in time, your bird will soon be on the wing again; if not, he will die. Other modes than these are, however, practised by different fanciers; all of which we append for their excellence. Take a little wheaten bread and boil it in milk, with the same proportion of canary-seed. When boiled place it in the bottom of the bird-cage every day for a week, first removing his seed food the night before, at mid-day taking it away, and returning him his seed-box. Another mode is frequently practised by good fanciers, which is generally attended with the most beneficial results. Whenever you perceive your bird to be attacked with the disease, and the swelling is apparent to the eye, heat a little milk lukewarm and hold him in it until the pores absorb a portion, which occupies six or eight minutes. Then bathe him in spring or pump-water of the same temperature as the milk; after doing which, rub him gently with a piece of fine muslin before the fire, or warm him in the sun, if it be shining in your apartment, till he is perfectly dry. You may then put him back in his cage and give him a little lettuce-seed, and let him repose himself for twenty-four hours, the next day pursuing the same system; and so continue for two or three days, allowing him to rest after each operation a day, that the means pursued may have a good effect. This system, though apparently troublesome, if pursued for the given time, will have the effect in a few days of restoring your bird to all his former health and vigour. MOULTING. This is, of all others, the most critical and dangerous period in the ives of Canaries, and produces a greater Fatality among them than any known dis- ease. It is a more fearful scourge to them than the plague or Asiatic cholera has ever been to mortals; and if they are the subjects of careless treatment, or possess injudicious tenders as their owners, may justly be accounted the bane of their tribe. Even when under the best of care, many of them die from the effects, who seem perfectly able, from strength of constitution, to resist its violence. This disease is more or less fatal according to the season. If the weather be damp and cold during and at the coming of autumn, your birds will die off rapidly; but if the weather be warm and mild you will lose but few. The time at which young birds, to whom it is most dangerous, moult, commences when they arrive at the age of six weeks, and continues for a couple of months. The symptoms of its approach may readily be seen. The young birds become sad and sleepy in appearance, and set upon their perches, or the bottoms of their cages, with their heads under their wings, for the greater portion of the day, while the floors of their cages are covered over with small pin-feathers, which they shed during all the time, until the new ones appear. The young ones of the Canary never lose their wing or tail-feathers until the second year, which seems a wise ordination of Providence, for were they to do so, scarcely one in ten would survive. They likewise eat very sparingly, and only of that description of food which they most prefer, which should always be supplied to them. Great care must be taken as cold weather advances, to give them the richest kinds pf food in addition to their usual allowance, such as hemp-seed and sponge-cake, with a lump of loaf-sugar for them to peck at occasionally. One of the most deadly things that can happen to the Canary, is to be placed at this season in a cold place, or where a draught can reach him. This is too frequently done, although it will certainly cause his death. He should be kept in the warmest room, where no air from without can reach him, and be put every day in the sun, which should shine on him through the glass. Should the moult prove uncommonly bad, take a piece of sponge-cake and soak it in white or sherry wine, the last is the best, and give it to him, as it will reinvigorate, and do him a great deal of service. After this, and every day or two, so long as he seems droopy, blow a little sherry wine over his feathers, and then place him as before in the sun, or set him nigh the fire. A lump of refined liquorice may also be thrown in his water, with occasionally a little saffron. Be careful that your birds, during this time, are kept supplied with coarse gravel, which is now doubly beneficial to them, and a great assistance in casting their feathers. Pip, OR SWELLING ON THE RUMP. This is another dangerous disease, that attacks the Canary not only when young but at all stages of his life. It is a species of reddish pip or bile, which appears upon the rump of the bird. When the bile appears small, the birds had better be fed on cooling seeds, as lettuce and rape, and suffered to break the sore themselves; but if they appear very heavy and sleepy looking, they require immediate attention. Take the sick bird in your hand, and cut off very carefully and gently the upper half of the bile or swelling. Then press out, as lightly as possible, the white or yellowish matter it may contain, and touch the sore with a little salt, which must be previously moistened in your mouth. This will cause the bile to dry up. Should the salt appear to pain the Canary, on whom you operate, a little moistened brown-sugar should be immediately applied, and it will instantly alleviate the pain caused by the previous application. Should the bile, when you examine it, be not come to a head, a little olive oil should be gently rubbed upon and around it, with a small feather. This will allay the irritation and inflammation. SCABS ON THE HEAD. This is a mischievous sickness which occasionally attacks Canaries, for which the best remedy is light and cooling food; such as rape and lettuce-seed, &c. and repose. Time and nature are here the only, as they are everywhere the best, physicians. RED MITES. Canaries are frequently infested with these dangerous and troublesome insects, the symptoms of whose presence, is the bird's pluming and feathering himself at all hours of the day. The cage, when this is discovered, should be scrubbed out thoroughly, and the shoulders of the perches, and every crack and crevice examined carefully, as the mites always breed in such situations. DIARRHCEA, OR LOOSENESS. This is a very common sickness with the Canary, which may readily be cured by the gentle application of a little sweet almond or olive oil to their bellies, and being fed upon cantelope-melon seed, which must be bruised for them, besides the yolk of hard boiled eggs, sponge-cake and a little lightly scalded lettuce. ASTHMA. Singing birds are frequently asthmatic, or have a strange kind of croaking in the voice. The best remedy for this is sponge-cake, soaked in sherry wine, which removes the difficulty of breathing. A few wild plantain leaves should be inserted in their cage every day, while they are affected with this malady. PERSPIRATION. This is a disease which only attacks the hen-bird during the commencement of the breeding season, and which may readily be removed by washing her in half a wine-glass of fresh cold water, in which half a tea-spoonful of common salt has been dissolved, and then bathing her in a little lukewarm water, and standing her in the sun, or should the sky be cloudy, before the fire, to dry; when she is thoroughly so, but not before, she may be returned to the breeding-cage. CANCER. A very fatal disease, very prevalent among Canaries, and seeming to be contagious. The seat of this sickness is either the bill or foot, that becomes much swollen, and if not attended to in the early stage, always destroys the patient. The best method of cure is to keep the cage constantly clean, so that no particles of dust or dirt may adhere to the schirrous part, and to bathe it frequently with sweet almond or olive oil, and wash it with lukewarm milk. COSTIVENESS. When Canaries are costive and require purging, it may easily be known by the want of appetite they display, and by their throwing their seed over the cage, without eating any. The best remedy is to give them a piece of lettuce-leaf, with chickweed and rapeseed for two or three days, and place a little sugar-candy in their water-founts. WANT OF APPETITE. This is a very common thing with the Canary, after sickness, during breeding or after the termination of the moulting season. The best cure is to take a handful of millet, canary, rape, yellow and a little hemp-seed, mixed with the same quantity of moistened garden loam, and knead them well together;—then drying it, and cutting it up into small pieces, which must be given to the bird. This medicine may be laid away after making; since it will be perfectly good for a great length of time. BROKEN mins. When a bird meets with an accident of this sort, the best mode of treatment is to place him or her in a cage without perches, with a little soft hay, and his seed-box and water-fount upon the floor of the cage, which should be covered round with a cloth, to prevent him from fluttering about. Nature will then do its work, and a few days will see your little favourite as strong as before the accident. DECLINE. It sometimes happens that a hen Canary who is kept from breeding, will fall sick and die without any apparent cause, or without exhibiting any symptoms of disease. This arises because they are denied the society of the male bird. We have now gone through the various diseases to which Canaries are subject, and shall close the section by recommending the amateur or professional fancier, who breeds and keeps a number of birds, to keep a separate or hospital cage for those who happen to be taken sick. This should be made of wood, with dark sides,—with a wicker and not a wire front, and covered inside with thick flannel at the sides, top and bottom, to keep the sick as warm as possible. One reason for this is, that most diseases which attack the Canary, are contagious, and if the sick be kept in the same cage or apartment with healthy birds, they may cause the loss of an entire collection. Besides, they require different food and more gentle treatment than those in a state of health. SECT. XII.—On the various methods of breeding. "mule-birds," and their general management. I have now arrived at the closing section of that portion of my work devoted to the Canary-bird; which I shall conclude with a short dissertation on the breeding and management of "mule-bird s." Mules are reared from hen Canaries, paired with birds of different kinds, as the Chaffinch, English Linnet, Green-finch; but most commonly with the English Gold-finch; which last association produces the finest coloured birds and the best singers. They may be raised vice versa, by pairing the females of any of these birds with the male Canary. In this country fine mules might be raised by coupling the males or females of some of our choicest native birds, with the same sexes of the Canary. The varieties most adapted to this purpose, are the "Song- sparrow," Fringilla melodia; "American Gold-finch, or Thistle-bird," F. tristis; "Purple-finch, or American Linnet," F. purpurea; "Indigo-bird, Blue Tit, or Blue Linnet," F. cyanea; whose rich azure and indigo plumage, crossed with a bright yellow hen Canary, might produce birds of a magnificent and exquisite character, both as regards feather and song; and last, though not least, the splendidly marked "Painted Bunting, Nonpareil, or Pape" of the Southern States, F. ciris; which may frequently be obtained of our bird-fanciers, or at the warehouses of our best seed-men. Of each of these more will be said under their respective chapters. The Gold-finch, however, is the most esteemed in Europe as a breeder of mules, and is the most common, and at the same time most successful cross. The cock-bird of this species should be placed with a richly coloured hen Canary. From these, on account of the rich colours of the mule's plumage, the young birds are generally very beautiful. The following methods must be observed, to secure the attainment of your object. When you undertake to pair your birds, take them when young, and bring them up either under a Canary hen or by hand, feeding them during this preparatory stage on a mixture of one-third rape and two-thirds Canary-seed. This food is the best adapted for them during the breeding season, and under its influence they most readily pair. Hemp-seed should never be given to them, as they become greedily fond of it, owing to its extreme oiliness, and it is the most injurious nutriment they could receive. When the male-bird is a Gold-finch, before you pair him, carefully cut off the extreme tip of his beak with a pair of sharp scissors. Should it bleed, which it may not however, the application of a little moistened brown-sugar will immediately cure the wound. The reason of this proceeding is simple, as it hinders film from flying at anti attacking tne female Canary, who is frequently killed upon her first introduction into his cage. It also prevents him from injuring the young birds, during the process of feeding, which he might do, easily, by the sharp point of his bill entering their throats and killing them. A Gold-finch, before being placed with a Canary, should be two years old; and the same rule should be observed with any of our wild birds, who are always caught by means of the trap-cage. Otherwise, they would not lay the first year in the cage. This circumstance, but few even of our professional bird-fanciers seem acquainted with, which is one reason why many persons are disappointed the first season; and so give up the attempt in disgust; never essaying a second experiment. When wild birds are intended to be crossed or bred together, they should be placed in a room or cage with Canaries, "* that they may the more readily choose their hen from among the number; a thing which otherwise will be frequently of some difficulty. Newly caught birds may easily be tamed, by being hung very low in a frequented apartment, as, in that case, they soon become accustomed to society, and extremely familiar. It is a general rule in breeding mules, for the dealer to couple the hen-bird of the Canary with the male-bird of the opposite species. This is in fact the most usual system, but some dealers prefer breeding the male Canary with the female Goldfinch or Linnet, asserting at the same time, that the young are handsomer and of finer song. This may be true; for the rule is always in favour of the young bird's resemblance to the father, in plumage and possession of musical abilities. The young, in this latter instance, differ very materially in their personal appearance, for while many are very plain, resembling the wild bird of the opposite species, others are extremely beautiful and marked with the various colours of the male and female bird; and others are again of a snow-white, being complete albinos. The pied kind and the latter species are the most esteemed, and from their rarity, especially the last, are sold at exorbitant prices. The cross-birds raised from the Linnet, although the plainest in feather, are preferable for song; since they possess, by far, the strongest and most melodious voices. The attempt is frequently made to pair the hen Canary with the English Bull-finch; but this though occasionally succeeding, is always a matter of considerable difficulty; the Bullfinch during the time of coupling, distending his bill and opening his mouth so wide, as to excite the strongest terror in his gentler and weaker companion. To ensure success in the matter, they should be placed together a season in advance, and kept in the same cage until the following spring. Long association will then have accustomed the Canary to his demeanour, and the desired object will be readily attained. When it is your wish to breed Goldfinch mules, and you desire to rear those of the finest possible character, you must closely observe the following directions. The cock Canary must be at least two years old, close feathered, of the very deepest yellow, and should never yet have been paired; for if he has been previously coupled with one of his own species, it will be a matter of considerable difficulty to mate him with any other variety; still more with a bird of a different colour and habit. The female Gold-finch should, whenever she can be so obtained, be one raised by hand, or from the nest, or at least been captured a year previous and fully accustomed to feeding on rape and canary-seeds, with scarcely any or no hemp-seed; the last being a food which I before explained to be very injurious. After they have coupled, and the young are produced, thistle-seed should be procured and given to the old birds. This is the food they would receive in a state of nature, and is of course best adapted for their nutriment in that of confinement. This may readily be procured on the fields and commons in the neighbourhood of the city. Your birds before coupling should be treated like Canaries, that is, placed in a small cage, as long before the breeding season as possible, so that they may become fully accustomed to each other's society, previous to the season of pairing. Should you select your birds properly, and closely observe the above directions, you will be certain to obtain males of the most beautiful and varied plumage; combining the different colours of the cock-bird with the softer, delicate tints of the hen, and mingling into an association of hues of the most gorgeous and magnificent description. This brilliancy of colour occurs less frequently in the case of a male Gold-finch and female Canary, and the young raised are generally plainer and always less valuable. When the young birds have left the nest, and are able to take care of themselves, it is advisable to place them in the society of older ones, that they may acquire the different changes of song. For this purpose old Canaries are the most preferable, and the trill which the young mules acquire from them, is an important addition to their wild wood-notes. Should your young ones prove to be cock Linnets, they should be removed from the nest-cage whenever they are able to feed themselves, and be placed immediately under old Canaries. This course of education will enable them to sing so loudly and well in six months, as to prevent them from being distinguished by voice from their preceptors, except when they, as they will do occasionally, run into their natural notes. The most dangerous disease to which the Gold-finch is subject, is called the "epilepsy, or falling sickness." The symptoms of this may easily be discovered. When the bird is seized with the disease, he flies around rapidly, beating his wings violently, and finally falls upon his back. The mode of cure is simple and effectual, if the bird be taken in time. Take a pair of very sharp scissors, and cut off the tips of his hinder claws. Should he bleed, as he probably will, wash his feet at once with a little white-wine, and give him two or three drops of the same liquor upon a piece of loaf-sugar. This treatment is always successful if timely resorted to; but unless it be done instantly the bird will be certainly lost. Another most excellent mule variety is produced from the association of the cock Averdivine with the female Canary. The young reared by this couple are not very beautiful, but on the reverse rather humble in plumage; yet they are possessed of such exquisite melody of voice, as to fully com- pensate for their unpretending appearance. They are likewise very familiar and easily tamed; indeed so much so, that they will come at a call, perch on your finger, and give forth their song at the word of command. CHAPTER III. DOMINICAN GROSBEAK.—Fringilla cardinalis The Cardinal Grosbeak of South America, as it is commonly called in this country, though in Brazil known by its proper title, is a native of the whole of Central America, and is as celebrated for its richness of plumage, as it is for the loudness and beauty of its song. It derives its name from the similarity of its colours to the dress of the order of Dominican monks, who wear a scarlet cap, white frock and light grey cloak and hood, which are the colours of this bird on the head, belly and back. It is likewise ornamented with a brilliant crest, which is raised and depressed at pleasure. In the cage this bird has all the gracefulness, ease and caprice of habit characterizing the Mocking-bird, with much of its imitative talent; while its voice is equally as loud and striking. Its food must be the same as that given to our Cardinal Grosbeak; but it must be kept in a warmer situation in the autumn and winter, as it is unable to endure the slightest cold. It requires considerable room in the cage, without which it will thrive less than is desirable. The price of this bird in this country is from ten to twenty dollars; though it can always be bought in the markets of Monte Video for one dollar. They generally live to about the age of twenty years, though some have been known to exist even to that of twenty-five. "" CHAPTER IV. WHIDAH-BIRD.—Fringilla whida. This singularly plumaged and gracefully formed bird, is a native of the kingdom of Whidah, in Africa, from which it derives its name. Through the solemn colour of the songster and its rather melancholy notes, its appellation is frequently changed into "Widow," by the ignorant fancier, who believes it to be constantly mourning its lost mate. This idea gave birth in us to the slight poem which accompanies this description. TO THE WHIDAH-BIRD. Bird of the dark and glancing wing! Whose home is Afric's burning strand, With solemn accents sorrowing, Why mourn'st thou for thy native land? And why with cadence sad and low, And look, the heraldry of woe, Where others sit in merry mood, Dost thou alone with drooping plume And flutt'ring wing, in sorrow brood, And wail so deep thy settled doom? Poor widowed thing! I pity thee Thus early mate to misery. But now thy sylvan song rings out Above the voice of every mate, And floats its mellow tones about In mock'ry of their meaner state; As if within thy downy breast, That fount of grief had sunk to rest. But lower, sadder now it grows, As though thy grief no smiles could cheer, And solemnly thy cadence flows With wailing tone upon mine ear. And thou dost mourn as one would mourn, Whom grief had made the most forlorn. Yet 'tis but seeming, lovely one! Thy mate is seated by thy side, And what we deem is grief alone, Is but the strain of hope and pride. Like to the Dove's, thy strains of bliss And love and joy and happiness Seem ever sad and ever low, When thou art happiest of heart, And farthest from the pangs of woe, That ne'er to life within thee start. Still strike thy song! The spell is o'er; What once seemed grief is grief no more. The habits of the Whidah-finch in a wild state, are similar to those of the rest of its tribe; though, what may be the character of its song in its native woods, is as yet unknown, save from the imperfect descriptions of the African boors. Its rich plumage is its principal attraction, being of a deep black, with the exception of the belly, which is a reddish-cream, and its sides, which are a bright-chestnut. Its chief ornament, however, is its Bird of Paradise-like tail, which falls in a graceful curve. Its song in confinement is low, sweet and thrilling, at times scarcely heard, but at others clear and beautifully distinct from the notes of all other birds. It may be kept upon canary and other seed, and treated when ill exactly like the Canary-bird; and must be well supplied with water and gravel, and kept in a very warm room during winter. It requires a very large and high cage. CHAPTER V. JAVA SPARROW.—Fringilla This prettily marked Grosbeak, so common as a cage-bird in this country, is a native of the East Indies and the Spice Isles, from whence it is brought, with many others of the same species, by vessels in the China trade. In the cage it is one of the most quarrelsome of birds, and it frequently occurs, that when a half dozen or more of them are kept together, they will fight until the whole, or a greater portion of the combatants, are dead. Its plumage, for the sake of which only t is kept, is silky and beautiful; but the )ird is so well known that it need not be lescribed. Its musical powers generally mount only to the repetition of a single 'chuck," which is given whenever the )ird is in motion; but we once possessed specimen whose song had all the sweet-less of tone, but none of the variety of the English Bull-finch. Their food should be "paddy" or rough lice, which they shell before swallowing, )r entirely canary-seed. They are very "ond of bathing, consequently they should lave plenty of water; and they likewise aat immoderate quantities of gravel. They are susceptible of considerable affection toward their feeders. When sick, they should be treated like the Canary-finch; than whom they are less hardy, requiring to be kept in a warm stove-room during the winter season. CHAPTER VI. WHITE-HEADED GROSBEAK.—Fringilla leuco-cephala. Another imported East Indian variety, of plain, but neat plumage, living in its native land on the rice-fields and among the thickets which line the shores of the large rivers. Its plumage is of a reddish-brown, excepting the back, which is darker, and the head, which is of a creamy-white. Its bill is white in colour, and as large in proportion to its size, or even larger than that of the Java Sparrow. Its song is low and short, but harmonious. It may be kept in the cage on canary-seed alone, or will thrive well on the same treatment as the Canary-bird. It is very familiar. CHAPTER VII. AVERDIVINE.—Fringilla averdivina. This singularly beautiful and minute songster, who is the smallest of all our cage-birds, is occasionally brought to our shores in company with the two preceding species, and is highly celebrated for its richness of plumage; and when we consider his minuteness of size, 'for his astonishing sweetness of song. His colour is a rich crimson, spotted and mottled with white, resembling closely the before-described markings of the British Starling. His form is graceful, and his actions replete with sprightliness and ease. In confinement, where he is the most sociable of birds, and may be kept in companionship, the Averdivine may be fed upon canary and millet-seed, and, in the winter season, partially on bruised hemp. He must also have plenty of water and an abundance of fine gravel to assist his digestion. He will readily breed with the Canary, like which he should be treated, and probably with some of our native birds. He should be kept very warm in the winter season, as he is extremely delicate and sensible to cold. CHAPTER VIII. ENGLISH GREY OR BROWN LINNET.—Fringilla linaria. This small, neatly plumaged, and in the spring season, showy Finch, is one of the most favourite of cage-birds in his native country, and is equally esteemed in the same situation here. His colours are not very striking, and the whole bird presents a rather dumpy appearance. His back, head and breast are of a reddish-brown, with the lower portion of the belly and vent of a ruddy white. In the spring season the plumage of his breast softens into a rich, rosy-crimson, somewhat similar to, but brighter than the hue of our Purple-finch, to whom in appearance he is closely allied, and his wings and tail are of a dark and handsome brown. In confinement he is rather impatient, and if kept along with other birds very pugnacious; his song is loud, sweet and harmonious, but apt, from his aptness of imitation, to be spoiled; since he will constantly, when in hearing of other songsters, take up and whistle their notes in preference to his own. The Linnet, therefore, had better be kept apart from society, as one of his sweet wild-wood strains is far more pleasing, from its distinctness and beauty, than the every-day song heard from the throats of a dozen Canaries. He should be fed and treated like the American Purple-finch; allowing him plenty of gravel and a sufficiency of water, both in a fount for drinking and a pan for bathing. His price varies from three to eight dollars. CHAPTER IX. ENGLISH GREEN-FINCH, OR GREEN LINNET. —Fringilla chloris. This large and handsome Finch, occasionally seen as a cage-bird in the commercial towns of the United States, is another of the natives of Europe and the British isles. It is here frequently called, in contradistinction to our own and the English Grey or Brown Linnet, [F. linariad the Green Linnet, though from what reason we are at a loss to discover. The, colour of this Finch, as may be gathered from its name, is green, but of that peculiar character called "Sap" by artists, which is brighter on the throat, breast and belly than it is on the back, where it runs into a dusky hue; while the primary and secondary feathers of the wings and the tail are of a dusky brown. Its food, in a wild state, is composed principally of the different kinds of grass-seed and insects, which may be given to it in confinement; but it may readily be kept in the cage on the same food as the Canary, and is subject to a like treatment with that bird when diseased. Of all the imported European birds, this is the least celebrated for powers of song. It is nevertheless a desirable variety, on account of its distinct plumage and its familiarity of character. CHAPTER X. ENGLISH GOLD-FINCH.—Fringilla carduelis. This beautifully plumaged, sprightly and delicate song-bird, of whom so much has already been said in our former chapter, devoted to the instructions concerning the rearing mule songsters, is a native of Europe, and strongly analogous in manners and habits to the Thistle-bird, or true Gold-finch of this country. Of his mode of treatment in the cage we have already spoken, and of the advantages arising from keeping him in a cultivated state; but as a single bird kept for the purpose of song only, he is not a whit inferior to the Canary. His musical powers, however, are the most striking, and exhibited with the most effect, from the commencement of March to the middle of July, during which time they continue from sunrise to sunset. " " The Gold-finch is nearly always to be obtained at the shops of our different fanciers, where it commands prices varying, on account of quality, from five to ten dollars each. PART II. LARKS.—Alaudx. CHAPTER I. ENGLISH SKY-LARK.—Alauda arvensis. The Sky-lark, though one of the plainest birds in plumage, is at once the theme of the poet and the delight of the villager and farmer. He is a native of the broad fields of "Old England;" and never was a bird more esteemed, or more deservedly, for the sweet character of his song. Yet, although thus delightful in the cage, a portion of the charm is lost for want of association. To enjoy his silver strain, one should stand at early dawn and see the Lark rising almost perpendicularly in the air from out the tufts of grass, beneath the shelter of which his mate and nest is concealed, his downy bosom swelling with melody, which is poured forth in warble after warble, the songster gradually becoming less and less to the sight, until he is finally lost in the wide expanse of azure which bends dreamily o'er the horizon. Then, his soothing notes seem to float over the scene like an elfin song, and then, and then only can their sweetness be fully appreciated. A somewhat similar species, the Shore-lark, (Alauda alpestris,) inhabits this country, which bird strongly resembles in character and song the preceding songster, to whom we append an effusion from our own pen. To THE AMERICAN SKY-LARK. Far, far away With the blue heavens around thee, in the light The red sun sheds upon thy plumage gray, Thou tak'st thy flight. And like a strain Of music poured from lips of seraphim, Thy song drops down upon the smiling plain, A gentle hymn, To where thy mate, Amid the springing spears of em'rald grass, Sits on her nest; whilst thou with heart elate Doth upward pass, And wait the hour When, with her young and thee, she'll seek again, With swelling soul and wing of freshen'd power, Yon azure plain. Sweet bird, farewell! Thine is the flight of genius, which awhile Doth Lark-like mount beneath Fame's sunny spell And fortune's smile. But soon the storm! Then with the swiftness of thy downward flight, It passes from the vision, and its charm Is lost in night. To proceed. In confinement, a piece of elevated green-sod should always be kept in his cage, to afford him a standing place when singing, as he never perches like other birds. The bottom II ift should always be well gravelled, and kept as clean as possible. His food consists entirely of seeds; but the leaves of salad, or other greens, may be occasionally given to him, and likewise a little hard-boiled egg. The Sky-lark has never been known to breed in confinement. Sky-larks are only occasionally to be obtained in this country, and then most frequently at the bird-fanciers, who purchase them from the mates of European trading vessels. Their prices vary from five to ten, and sometimes even as high as fifteen dollars each. They live to a considerable age. CHAPTER II.	. ENGLISH WOOD-LARIL—A/GUda arborea. This neatly and prettily plumaged bird, so closely related to the Sky-lark, and somewhat resembling him in manners and song, is frequently found as a cage-bird in the towns of Europe, but only occasionally in America. His song is not so fine as the preceding species', but is given more frequently, and is of a lower and more monotonous tone. In a wild state he resides in the low wide-spread woods, or in the fields which lie adjacent, where he sits and sings, or soars like his before-mentioned relative, whistling as he rises to the top of some tall tree, from whence his lay is given the greater portion of the day. He is most frequently taken in nets by bird-catchers, or raised from the nest by them, and then brought to the bird-fanciers, who expose him for sale. His treatment is exactly similar to that of the preceding species; but he may have perches upon which to sit when singing. PART III. BULL-FINCHES.—Pyrrhaw. •	CHAPTER I. BULL-FINCH.—Pyrrhula vulgaris. THE BUR-finch, so well known by name as a choice and delicious songster, and so greatly celebrated for its constant beauty of plumage, is another of the many varieties imported from Europe, to delight the eyes and ears of our countrymen. In the countries he inhabits he is by far more commonly seen in the cage than in his native woods and fields, which probably arises from the great demand for him as a song-bird, and his rather wild and shy habits. There, he is towards his kind a social and friendly bird, and becomes so much attached to his mate, that' their connection endures for the life of the parties. In the cage, he, however, becomes wonderfully docile if reared from the nest; will breed in confinement; may easily be taught to articulate words; while his musical powers and imitative talents are turned to the highest account by the bird-fancier. He whistles tunes of considerable length. and variation, with all the accuracy of an accomplished musician, and in so surprising and so sweet a manner, as to transcend the strength of the most high-flown description. In fact, in this branch of acquirement, he is entirely unrivalled; for no musical instrument possesses a thousandth part of the depth and entrancing harmony of his clear and delicious voice.. He has likewise been taught to sing duets in company with other birds of his kind, taking up his part, finishing it, waiting for the response of his companion, and then again proceeding until the entertainment is finished. When singing one tune, he will come forth from his cage at the word of command, perch upon the finger of his owner, and on being bid will pour forth his enchanting strains without exhibiting the slightest fear, even should a stranger be present in the room. Birds thus educated bring with ease wonderful prices, and are rarely sold for less than eighty dollars; frequently commanding as high as one hundred and one hundred and fifty dollars each. His colours are—back of a soft ash-grey, with the breast and belly of a soft crimson-red, and his wings and tail of a deep glossy black. His head is likewise ornamented on the crown with a patch of the same raven hue. In confinement he should receive seeds of all the different kinds, except hemp, which should only be given sparingly, and when so, only in the winter, or during the moulting season, which occurs at the same time with him as with the Canary. The same directions for this time of life, and for other sicknesses applicable to that bird will fully suffice for the Bull-finch. He will likewise, by observing the rules laid down in a previous section, breed with the Canary-bird. DIVISION II. NATIVE BIRDS. PART I. TANAGERS.— Tana grx CHAPTER I. SCARLET TANAGER, OR BLACK-WINGED SUMMER RED-BIRD.—Tanagra rubra. The Scarlet Tanager, one of the most beautiful, if not entirely so, of our native birds,- arrives in the Middle States during the time intervening between the first and the twentieth of May. While his residence continues, which is only during summer, he is principally found in the thick forests, but also on the edges of large orchards, and frequently on the skirts of ploughed fields, which he visits in search of his insect food; at that season his only sustenance. Nothing could be imagined more lovely or exquisite than the glittering scarlet and ebony plumage of this bird, as he darts along either in frolic play, of in pursuit of winged insects of various kinds, like a winged meteor, through the green and interwoven branches of the budding trees. Shortly after their arrival, the Tanagers commence pairing, and by the first of June, incubation has commenced. At this time the young birds can easily be obtained, and may readily be reared on scalded Indian-meal, soaked bread, raw beef (dipped in milk) and hard-boiled egg. The two latter articles chopped very fine. When the young have attained their full size, they may be treated as regards food exactly like the Canary. They should also receive from time to time the ripe berries of the different seasons, with ;berries and such insects as can be obtained. In the winter, dried cherries, figs, raisins and currants would form an im)ortant addition to their diet. The young are at first of a greenish-)live hue, which on the wings and tail approaches to a dusky-brown colour; but tcquire their rich scarlet livery the ensuing spring, moulting into the olivaceous int in the fall, and regaining the brighter )lumage, which becomes deeper and deeper ;very succeeding spring, the following season. Their song, which is delivered for hours ogether, is a sweet, mellow and harmonous ditty of considerable strength and )ower. It resembles very closely the clear ife-like notes of the Golden Robin, or Bal,imore Oriole, passes into the soft delightful ones of the flute, and is at the same time .emarkable for its rich variety of cadence. They should be kept in a warm stove-.""m during winter, as they are extremely ;usceptible of cold. PART II. CHAPTER I. INDIGO-BIRD, OR BLUE LINNET.—Fringi/L cyanea. THE Linnet, as it is most commonl: styled in this section of country, is another one of our beautiful summer residents and is well known for its familiarit: and excellent song. This is lively, unique and interesting; given not only at earl: dawn, but during the intense heat of thi summer mid-day; and again is frequentl: heard during the greater part of the night more especially if it be moon-light. It notes resemble those of the Canary, am though less powerful than that bird's possess more sweetness. In the cage it may be kept on precisely the same food, and treated exactly like the adult birds of that species. During the spring they may, however, be given insects, though chopped hard-boiled egg will answer equally as well. They are especially fond of the leaves of the common garden beet, (Beta vulgaris,) on which I have frequently seen them feeding, in company with the Yellow-bird, (F. tristis.) The colour of the male Indigo-bird is a brilliant verditer azure, deepening on the head and neck into a rich dark blue. The plumage of the female is a dingy yellow and olive-brown colour. On one occasion, on a moonlight night in June, while seated at the door of a friend's country residence, enjoying at the same time the cool breeze and the delight of a "Davenport Regalia" cigar, I was particularly struck with the song of one of these birds, who sat on the highest one of an adjacent clump of trees. At the moment I penned the following effusion, which may give some idea of the sweet• ness of his strain in the lonely hours o night. To THE INDIGO FINCH. 'Tis the deep silence of a summer night, A night in June. How solemn seems the scene The wood is hushed in slumber, while the trees 'Tween whose shut leaves the night wind playfu steals, Kissing them into music, sadly breathe A mournful requiem o'er the vanished day. The brook, that through the meadow gleaminl creeps And 'neath the wood, low ripples twixt the mos Which interwoven lines its shelving sides, Or pattering o'er the pebbles in its bed, Hath changed its cadence to a lower tone, More fitting to the hour. The flowers have closed their petals and bowie( down Their bells in slumber—And the wide-sprea( fields Lay like a burial place of by-gone dead. Hark! some sweet strain, In mellow cadence, on the ear of night "'* Palls like a lullaby. Whence comes the song, end what doth give it life? Again 'tis here! ;ome elfin lover tunes his golden lute, 'neath the beamings of the love-sick moon, ;oft woos his fav'rite fay. More loud it swells, While echo, wakened from her dreamless sleep, longs back in ecstacy the silvery lay;— Tis past and all is still. Oh! once again )elight with me thy strain, which, like the lutes ;wept by the fingers of the heedless wind, rives forth strange music. Vain I gaze around, (et naught I see! But now from yon tall beech, Whose coronal of leaves is high in air, lifting betwixt me and the azure sky, form fast flies. Ah! sylvan one! 'twas thou Vho charmed me all unknowing. He has gone "o his lone mate, and by her gentle side qow rests in slumber. Peace be with thee, bird! The Indigo-bird should be kept in a waled room during the winter; it being so tender, that it is unable to endure the slightest cold. CHAPTER II. PAINTED BUNTING, OR NONPAREIL.—Fringilla ciris. This brilliant and beautiful bird is a native of the southern portion of the United States, never visiting further north than the Carolinas. He is usually styled by the French residents of Lousiana, the "Pape;" and by the rest of our countrymen, the Nonpareil, no other word conveying a description of his exquisite beauty. His song, though not so loud as the Indigo-bird's, and more concise, still runs into a delightful warble, which is continued all summer. He is extremely docile, will readily breed in confinement, and would certainly produce, if mated with a dark-yellow hen Canary, mules of singular beauty. The male is of a vermilion-red, with the head and back of the neck of a rich blue, the back of a golden-green, wings of a clouded-red, and the tail greenish, approaching to brown. The female slightly resembles the hen Indigo; but contains more yellow in her plumage. The Nonpareil may be kept in confinement on precisely the same food as the Canary, with the exception of a little unhulled or rough rice, of which he is very fond, and which should be soaked twelve hours before he receives it. He is extremely sensitive, not being able to endure the slightest cold. These birds may be occasionally obtained at the various fanciers. CHAPTER III. SONG SPARROw. .—Fringilla fasciata. This humble looking and sociable Finch, more familiarly known by the appellation of "Tom-tit," is an inhabitant of the whole continent of North America, and is one of the hardiest and most interesting of his tribe. His colour, though plain and monotonous, being of a chestnut and greyish-brown, is neat and handsome; and his form, about the size of the Canary, taper and graceful. His musical talents, however, are great, and amply recompense for his want of beauty by their sweetness of sound and long continuance, being given without any intermission through the whole of the year. His lay resembles, in cadence and delivery, the sweetest passages of that of the Canary; but is possessed of a depth of warbling melody even surpassing that delightful songster; while his sprightliness in the cage is also of a more lively cast. His song early in the spring, is very vigorous and loud, continued from daybreak until even after dark in the evening; but in the fall it becomes, as if the bird sympathizing with the solemnity of the scene around him, of a softer, more touching, and although of a lower, by far to me of a more delicious and entrancing character. In confinement he may be treated in every respect like the Canary-finch, to whom he possesses a great affinity; occasionally giving him any or all of the different kinds of grass-seed to be had in the different s"ed-warehouses, on which, in a state of nature, he almost entirely depends for sustenance. The Song Sparrow would likewise be an important bird for the fancier to rear with the Canary, to produce fine mules, which may readily be done by observing the rules laid down in section twelfth of the division on the Canary-bird. The following beautifully descriptive lines on this sweet songster, are from the pen of an excellent poet, who, though scarcely known in that. capacity by the mass, still possesses much of the fire of a true son of Parnassus. 