A FEW PLAIN WORDS AT PARTING, BY TEE LATE EDITOR. In August, , we assumed the Editorial chair of the Messenger. Such a position bad, before this, appeared to us to possess many advantages and attractions ; and even when there was no expectation of onrever attaining it, more than once had we expressed the wish for that which we have occupied for the last four years. It was with alacrity and delight, therefore, that we entered upon the discharge of our new duties. Notwithstanding the known jealousy of the Law, and the stern exactions of business in our as yet too practical country, we endeavored to reconcile their claims with the more delightful pursuits of Literature. In our opening address to the patrons of the work, it was announced that we would continue the practice of Law ; and thus between it and the Messenger have four years passed pleasantly away, and, we trust, not without ]eating some record of good in their rapid flight. But here, we were arrested in our career by the unsolicited and unexpected invitation of the Trustees of the " Vir- ginia Female Institute," at Staunton to take charge of their Institution, which they wished to make one of high character arid wide influence. The position of Principal in such an institution was different from any that we had contemplated ; but its usefulness and great responsibility, with the flattering inducements held out by the Trustees, entitled it to serious nonsideration. Hitherto either a professorship in some important and well established Literary Institution, or the exclusive practice of the Law, had been regarded by Os as the only stemma tion for which the Messenger should he given tip. But after the best reflection we could bestow upon the subject, we resolved to change plans and aspirations,—at least for the present,—and remove to Staunton. Education is the great want of our country, as it is the best safeguard of the rights and interests of a free people ; and especially is this true of the education of females, who, as the mothers, are to be the most influential teachers of succeeding generations. Every female Institution is a Nor- mal School, whose pupils are sure to become the teachers of those who must inevitably receive from them their hue of character and their cast of thought. But whilst other professions are overcrowded, that of teaching, which should certainly rank as one of the " learned professions," is too often left to inferior agents ; and many, who should act more wisely, commit the minds, hearts and immortal souls of their children to the care and training of persons who would not come half way up to their standard for a lawyer, a doctor, or a divine. And then, as a natural consequence, they feel themselves above the "poor schoolmaster." We have not so learned to estimate the value and importance of this mighty moral instrumentality ; and now that we are about to wield somewhat of its influence, we almost shrink from the solemn responsibility. But our trust is not in ourselves, but in dependence upon Hai, by whine heavenly light we shall seek to be guided. The " Virginia Female Institute" was incorporated a few years since, with power to raise a Capital of thirty thous- and dollars. A good part of this sum hes been obtained by donations and subscriptions to the stock ; and a large, handsome and commodious edifice has been erected. The In- stitution will be under the auspices of the Episcopal Church, to which our decided preferences have long been given ; but without bigotry or illiberality. In it, education will be conducted upon sound religious principles; and if there has been any thing in the manner in which we have edited the Messenger that has gained the applause and in- spired the confidence of our patrons, we would invoke their patronage in our new enterprise, into which we shall carry ihe same leading principles which have guided us in editing the Messenger. in taking our reluctant leave of the Messenger, we desire to tender to its patrons, its contributors, and the gene- rous editorial corps who have so liberally aided it by their flattering notices, out hearty thanks and cordial good wishes, and to bid them an affectionate adieu. if there are any who have been induced to take the work by personal kindness to us, we ask them to extend their confidence and support to our enterprising successor, who will soon prove himself worthy of them. Well endowed by nature, having enjoyed the advantages of the best col• legiate education, fond of Literature, acquainted with its hest authors, accustomed to the use of his pen, and quite enthusiastic in his devotion to the Messenger, he bids fair to raise it above its present high and honorable position ; and we hope to enjoy the pleasure,—for it would be a pleasure,—of seeing the light which we have endeavored to shed from its s eclipsed by his more brilliant appearing. Richmond, October th. The following article first appeared in the " New York Legal Observer," (a valuable journal edited by Samuel Owen, Esq..) together with the one which has already been republished in the Messenger, upon the Legal Profession and its Conservative character. At first, we were afraid that these did not possess sufficient genera interest for the paws of the Messenger ; but as they contain matters calculated to gratify curiosity and as many of our patrons are in the ranks of the Legal Profession, we have determined to ask the indulgence of our readers to ihe republication of the whole. We think we read some time since, in some History of Virginia, that at one time lawyers' fees in the " Old Dominion" became so exorbitant that great discontent arose among the people, and they actually sent a deputation to the mother country to obtain a redress of these grievances. In !oohing cursorily to verify this impression, we have not found the particular passage referred to ; but there is in our ancient laws much " curious learning" in relation to lawyers and their fees, which tends to confirm it, and which we hope will prove not less interesting to others than it has to ourselves. When or how lawyers were first introduced into Virginia, I am not accurately informed. They would, however, naturally spring up from the people as soon as there was a demand for their services. No doubt, too, certain "limbs of the law" were early transplanted in our soil from England. Bacon was qnite fresh from the " Inns of Court," when he headed the " rebellion," in ; but many must have preceded him. Certain it is, that not thirty years after the settlement of the colony, lawyers had become quite a pestiferous set ; and in little more than twenty years after the establishment of the Assembly, stringent laws were enacted against them. From this period, they were objects of repeated legislation, alternating between severity and favor, restriction and privilege, or abolishing the profession altogether. At first there was very little use For such a class in the colony. According to the Royal Instructions accompanying the Charter in , all matters, civil and criminal, were to be adjudged by the President and Council, except that capital offences were to be tried by a jury. The President might reprieve a convict, but the King alone could pardon. .Tudicial proceedings were to be " made and done summarily and verbally without writing, until it come to the judgment or sentence," which was to be briefly and summarily registered into a book to be kept fur that purpose." Lands were to pass and descend according to the laws of England ; but as yet, there was no separate property in land ; and for five years they were to "trade together all in one stocke, or divideably, but in two or three stocks at the most." But matters arising even under these regulations, might have sometimes called for the intervention of counsel ; and probably it was not very long before some one was allowed to appear somewhat in that character. All these regulations were unaltered by the subsequent chirters of and . But owing to the character and situation of the colonists, to whom considerable accessions, of none the purest materials, were made from time to time, much turbulence and discontent arose, which called loudly for a remedy. Accordingly a very arbitrary military code adopted from the low countries in Europe, which had long been in a state of confusion and war, was sent over in , by Sir Thomas Smith, Treasurer of the London Company. This code was impartially and beneficially enforced, by Sir Thomas Dale and Sir Thomas Gates ; but with a high hand by Capt. ArgalI. The community of goods naturally produced idleness and improvidence, and destroyed all individual enterprise ; so that in , when the five years had elapsed, Sir Thomas Gates instituted separate property and interests among the colonists, which gave a new impulse to their exertions. From this period there was necessarily a large increase of the subjects of litigation, which no doubt contributed to produce a class of lawyers. Perhaps adventurous spirits, like some of those now in the camp in Mexico, not very full of briefs at home, had deserted the " Inns of Court" for the wilds of Virginia, and now rejoiced in the opportunity of adding a little professional employment to the few other resources which the state of the country then opened to them. Mr. Burk says, that in , an important change took place in the administration of justice. The court held at Jamestown caused great inconvenience to suitors, from the distance at which some of the council lived, and the consequent irregularity and uncertainty of their attendance ; and four regular quarterly terms, of a week each, were now instituted at that place. Previous to this, the first Assembly had met in , though there is some uncertainty as to the exact manner in which it was established. As early as March, -, they passed a law creating monthly courts, in various places, held by what were called Commissioners, " for the decyding of suits and controversies not exceeding the value of one hundred pounds of Tobacco, and for punishing of petty offences." f Thus having the courts, I shall pursue their history no farther, but turn to the lawyers. Of course, where civilization had made these advances lawyers must have arisen, for " where the eareass is, there will the eagles be gathered ;" but art end is soon put to all conjecture in regard to them. It is not improbable that some prior legislation was had upon the subject ; but in -, (th Charles T., when Edward Littleton was " Lord Keeper" of the Great Seal of England :) we have this pungent, and stringent law :- " Be ii also enacted, for the better regulation of attorneys and the great fees exacted by them, that it shall not be lawfull for any attorney to plead causes on behalfe of another without license or permission first had and obtained from the court where he pleadeth, Neither shall it he lawfull for any attorney to have license from more courts than from the quarter court and one county court, and that they likewise be sworne in the said courts where they are so licensed," &c. It might be well for the profession, were they at least to impose upon themselves greater restriction, in the number of courts in which they practise. The multitude of courts in Virginia, the inadequate sal- aries of the judges, and the number of tribunals before which the same counsel appear, tend to depreciate both the bench and bar, without at all expediting or promoting the ends of justice. The above law also provides, that no attorney shall, "either by gift or love, directly or indirectly, take a larger fee than lbs. of Tobacco, or its value, in the county court, and lbs. in the quarter court, under the penalty of lbs. of Tobac- co, in the former ease ; and of . lbs. in the latter, one " moyety" to the king and the other to the informer, " whether client, adverse party, or any person whatsoever;' "And it is further thought flit, that no attorney licensed as aforsaid shall refuse to be entertayned in any cause as aforesaid, provided he be not entertayned by the adverse party, uppon forfeiture of lb. of tobacco in a countie court, and lb. of tobaecoe in the quarter court, * * * Provided this act nor any penalty therein expressed extend to such who shall be made special attorneys within the collony, or to such who shall have letters of procuration out of England." The provisions of this law partly disclose the character of the legal profession at this period. In the opinion of the assembly, their extortions soon called for a stronger blow ; for about three years after, (Nov. ,) they opened upon them the following battery :— " Whereas many troublesome snits are multiplied by the unskilfulness and covetousness of attorneys, who have more intended their own profit and their inordinate lucre than the good and benefit of their clients : Be it therefore enacted, That all mercenary attorneys be wholly expelled from such office, except such snits as they have already undertaken, and are now depending, and in case. any person or persons shall offend contrary to this act, to be fined at the discretion of the court." f This law, perhaps, only amused some of those whom it so bitterly denounced ; for it would he difficult to enforce it. It is not clear whether the punishments, of expulsion and being fined at the discretion of the court, were both to be inflicted ; or whether the one was to be in lieu of the other. At the same session, the law of , for "licensingattorneys," was repealed, whilst this, expelling the mercenary ones, was kept in full force and power. t How the ranks of the profession were filled up now, does not appear. Probably like those of our medical profession, which any one can enter without license or diploma at the present time. And some may have come over who had been admitted to the bar in England. In October, , it was enacted, " ffor the better prevention of all corruption, partiality and injustice," that no commissioner, magistrate, clerk or other officer should plead in his own court, for any person residing in the colony ; (!i which wholesome regulation is in force at this day. As if the mercenary attorneys required still more signal vengeance, the next year () it was added that they should not receive " any recompense, directly or indirectly :" and no attorneys in private causes were allowed ; but if the courts perceived that any weak party was likely to lose his cause, they were to open the case for him, " or appoint some fit man out of the people to plead the cause, and allow him satisfaction requisite. II" So that now the legal profession was abolished in all private causes in court, and we can imagine the result. Of course the dispositions of men did not change and the subjects of controversy did not cease ; and the courts must still have been resorted to by litigants. Some plead their own causes and were necessarily stimulated by self-interest, as their counsel would have been ; and probably their undigested discourses were often no small infliction. Many " weak parties" no doubt suffered the loss of clear rights ; the members of the courts finding that it. was not so easy to open their cases for them. Yet these evils and inconveniences were slow in developing themselves, and this very democratic system continued for the space of nine years ; when in the th year of the commonwealth under Cromwell, (,) it was superseded as follows This assembly finding many inconveniences in the act prohibiting mercenary attornies, doe therefore hereby enact, and be it by these presents enacted, that that act, and all other acts against mercenary attorneys to bee totally repealed ;" The governor and council were to appoint fit and able persons, attorneys, in the quarter courts ; and the commissioners, in the county courts; these attorneys were to take a prescribed oath, and if any controversy arose with their clients about their fees, the respective courts were to decide, "Provided allwaies that those only be called counsellors at law, who have allreadie been qualified thereunto by the !awes of England, and those so qualified to enjoy all the privileges those lawes give them." 'r From this, we perceive that the bar was once more put on a separate and honorable footing ; and for it, the times of the commonwealth were more royal than those of Charles L had been. But alas ! for poor human nature ; in less than two years the old spirit of extortion and selfishness seems to have re-appeared and had again to be exorcised by the power of the legislature. In the assembly it was first " Proposed, Whether a regulation, or totaIl ejection of lawyers I" As if in despair of regulating so mercenary and crafty a set, it was " Resolved, By the first vote, An ejection." Hereupon, even at that early day, arose a constitutional question, and rather strangely, too, started by the governor and council, who, their sympathies being in favor of the lawyers, replied to the " House's Message," that they would " consent to this proposition so farr as it shall be agreeable to Magna Charta." Signed by " Wm. CLAIBORNE, Martii —(.)" It was then deliberated whether any answer should be returned to this, and an answer being resolved on, the House sent word that they had considered Magna Charts, and could " not discover any prohibition contained therein" of the ejection of lawyers ; and that the right of legislating on the subject had been repeatedly exercised. f All which they proceeded to exemplify by the fol lowing act :—" Whereas there doth much charge and trouble arise by the admittance of attorneys and lawyers through pleading of causes thereby to maintain suites in lawe, to the grease prejudice• and charge of the inhabitants of this collony, for prevention thereof, be it enacted by the authorite.e of this present grand assembly, that no person shall plead any cause, or give legal advice- for a fee, or any kind of reward tinder the penalty of five thousand pounds of tobacco for every offence ; and because the breakers of the law through their subtillity could not easily bee discerned," it was enacted that either plaintiff or defendant might make any one who had acted as his counsel, purge himself upon oath. In , it was again enacted that no officer should practise law in his own court, except in behalf of the poor, or unless he were attorney for some non-resident who might call him to an account. f Absolute free trade in law being thus established, " the land had rest" from the offending attorneys for the space of twenty-three years. But all the evils and inconveniences in legal proceedings were not yet eradicated ; for in R, ( Charles IL, when Heneage Finch, Earl of Nottingham, " the Father of Equity," was Lord Chancellor of England,) in this game of legislative "see-saw" between the people and the lawyers, it was the lawyers' turn to go up again. It was now discovered that by ejecting lawyers with fees, a class of busybodies without sense had been called forth, and the following enactment was the consequence " Whereas all courts in this country are many tymes hindered and troubled in their judiciall proceedings by the impertinent discourses of many busy and ignorant men who will pretend to assist their friend in his business and to eleare the matter more plainly to the court, although never desired or requested therennto by the person whome they pretended to assist, and many tymes to the destruction of his cause, and the gteate trouble and hindrance of the court.; for the prevention whereof in future (here note the style,) Bee it enacted by the Kings most excellent Majestic, by and with the consent of the generall assembley, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid," that no person shall practise as an attorney, without being licensed thereto by the Governor, under the penalty of lbs. of tobacco, fur every offence in the general court ; and of , in the inferior courts : For every case in the general court, the fee was fixed at lbs. of tobacco and casks; § and in the county courts, at lbs. and caske ; which might be claimed without any pre-agreement with the client. If any attorney refused to plead a cause for these fees, he was to forfeit to the party aggrieved the amount of the fee according to the court ; but any one " capable" was allowed to plead his own cases in any court ; a privilege enjoyed to this day, but rarely exercised. If he were indeed " capable," he might escape the force of the adage that " he who pleads his own cause. has a fool for his client ;" but how this question of fitness was to be decided, we are not informed. Many, the least capable, might imagine themselves so, and especially after the anti-lawyer system, which had so long prevailed and accustomed men to regard themselves and one another as good-enough counsel. But in two years, the balance turned and down went the lawyers : the above statute was repealed. * From this time to , about years, our printed "statutes at large" contain nothing relating to lawyers ; but some unimportant regulations then, and also in , (st George II.,) as to fees, &c., render it probable that some intermediate legislation respecting them has been lost. Passing some unimportant items, we find in , a long and significant act, "to prevent frivolous and vexatious suits; and to regulate attorneys practising in the county courts." t It charges boldly into the number of unskilful attorneys in the county courts, who have " become a great grievance to the country, in respect of their neglect and mismanagement of their clients' causes, and other foul practises:" and enacts that no one shall practise in those courts without a license from the governor and council, under a penalty of s. for every case undertaken : License to be obtained by petition to the governor and council, who should refer it to suitable persons to examine the candidate. If qualified, he was then to he licensed ; but was to subscribe the oath of abjuration and the test, and also to take the following remarkable oath :— "You shall do no falsehood, nor consent to any to be done in the court ; and if you know of any to be done, you shall give notice thereof to the justices of the court, that it may be reformed : You shall delay no man for lucre or malice, nor take any unreasonable fees : You shall not wittingly or willingly sue, or procure to be sued, any false suit, nor give aid nor consent to the same, upon pain of being disabled to practise as an attorney forever. And furthermore, you shall use yourself in the office of an attorney within the court according to your learning and discretion. So help you God." For violation of duty as laid down in this law, the governor and council could suspend an attorney, or disable him forever ; and the courts could make him pay all casts occasioned by his wilful nealeet. Practitioners in the aenpral court .r time of its passage, and counsellers and barristers at law were excepted from the operation of the act. Some trite provisions in , and , which come next in order, are omitted. In , so much of the law of , as applied to regulating attorneys and granting them licenses was repealed, not having " been found to answer the good design and intention thereof." * The same year. lawyers' fees were fixed by law, and a new oath prescribed : viz.- " You shall not directly or indirectly exact, demand, or receive, any greater or larger fee or reward, or other gratuity whatsoever for the services by you to be done as an attorney of this court, than you are permitted to take by a certain act of Assembly, intituled, an act to prevent lawyers exacting or receiving exorbitant fees, during the continuance of the said act. So help you God." Without taking this oath, no lawyer could practise in any court, under a penalty of pounds current money. In , the law for regulating attorneys and granting them licenses was revived and altered, t an that it became the basis of subsequent legislation on the subject for many years ; and no doubt from this period the colonial bar began to assume much of that dignity and importance which now belong to the profession. The details of the law, however, will be reserved until we come to the year , when it was re-enacted with amendments. In the meantime, nothing of consequence took place in reference to our subject. The disposition to " regulate" attorneys st ill prevailed, and in , (d George II.) a lengthy statute was passed, containing the following provisions : Examiners from among the Council and lawyers skilled in the law were to be appointed by the General Court, who should be sworn to grant no license except to persons of undoubted capacity, ability, and fitness ; and who were to receive from every candidate the fee of twenty shillings : the candidates were to produce to the examiners a certificate of their honesty, probity, and good demeanor, from some inferior court ; and, if qualified, to receive a license under the hands and seals of the examiners. If the persons appointed examiners refused to be sworn, granted a license improperly, or charged more than the legal fee, each forfeited for every such offence one hundred pounds, half to the king, for the better support of the colonial government; the other half to the informer licensed attorneys were to subscribe the oath of abjuration and the test, take oath in every court in which they practised to demean themselves truly and honestly ; and if any attempted to plead without license or without duly qualifying himself in court, he forfeited five pounds for every cause so undertaken : convicts for felony were incapable of tinned ; but the penalty for violating it was increasobtaining license, and should any such obtain a li- ed to one hundred pounds; and if any lawyer cense, the general court were to supersede it : the brought suit for his fees, he could recover only the same court could also suspend or disable " without legal amount notwithstanding any agreement he the solemnity of a jury" any attorneys who misde- might make with his client to the contrary. This meaned themselves : the county courts still to have quasi anti-law-usury provision may enable us to power to fine attorneys for contempt, &c., to bind remove an ambiguity in the phraseology of the them to good behavior and force them to pay costs act, which in two places uses the following Ian-occasioned by their neglect " to prevent frivolous guage : lawyers shall not directly or indirectly, by suits in the general courts, and trifling and vexa- any device whatsoever, take, or demand, " before lions appeals from the inferior courts," no attor- the suits in which they shall be employed shall be ney during the time of his practising in the general finally determined," any greater fees than those court, could undertake a case in the inferior courts, specified. * Does this mean, that after the suits with some specified exceptions, under a penalty of are decided they may take larger fees, which an-twenty pounds, for every such case, though he cords best with the precise phraseology ! Or that might finish his cases then depending; no more they shall not receive even their legal fees until than two lawyers to argue on a side, in the gen- the services are rendered ? The clause in refereral court, except in cases of life and death : this ence to the recovery of their fees by suit, seems to act repealing all former acts, to continue in force confirm this latter construction, as it denies a legal for four years, and to the end of the next session sanction to greater fees than those specified. The thereafter. *	above phraseology is still preserved in our laws In , the laws establishing the general court regulating fees ; but by a recent statute now in op-were reduced into one ; and it was enacted, that if eration, a lawyer is authorized to make special an attorney failed to enter an appearance in it, after contracts for fees with his clients without any limit engaging so to do, he should forfeit to the plaintiff as to the amount ; and most of the fees usually re-fifty shillings : t at the same time, this sum was ceived exceed the legal rates which are taxed in fixed as the fee in the general court, to be taxed in the bills of costs. the bill of costs, if the plaintiff employed counsel ;	In , (st George III.,) these regulations or in lieu of this sum, five hundred pounds of to- which were established from , were, with bacco, at the option of the defendant. I	a few slight differences, re-enacted in one statute,I The law of was " found to answer the ends repealing all others, and to continue in force for thereby intended," and when about to expire (,) five years, and from thence to the close of the was continued for three years, and to the end of next session. When the general court had super-the next session thereafter. And for preventing seded any attorney's license for misderneaning him-lawyers taking unreasonable and exorbitant fees, self, they could permit him to resume practice under and for the more equal settlement of the same," it his former license : the restriction as to practising was enacted that counsel in the general court might in both courts was renewed, except as to barristers receive, for advice when no suit was brought, £ at law : and some of the penalties for violating the Is. d. ; for any suit at common law, other than act were increased. those below specified, s. ; for " all chancery	We have passed by some regulations of the as- suits, or real, mixt, or personal actions, where the sembly in regard to taxing lawyers' fees in certain title or bounds of land shall or may come in ques- cases, in the bills of costs. In , (the th Lion," £. County court attorneys, fin. similar George III.,) a more general law was passed on services, were to receive s., s., and s. res- this subject. Reciting former laws touching fees pectively ; and on a petition for a small debt, s. and the establishing of the general court, and de-d. Any lawyer for attending a survey in the elating it " unreasonable that the party who pre-county was to receive, for every day, £ is. d. rails, and recovers in any such action or suit, should The penalty for exceeding these fees was fifty be subject to the payment of a greater fee to his pounds, for every instance. §	lawyer than he can by law recover of the ad.. This law seems to have worked well again ; and verse party," it requires the fees already specified when the period limited was about to expire, it was to be taxed in the hills of costs, " except against again continued, with some amendments, for four executors and administrators, or where the plain-years, and to the end of the session thereafter. tiff may not recover more costs than damages." § The prohibition that lawyers practising in the At the present day, as above stated, few plaintiffs general court should not plead in the inferior courts recover as much as they have to pay their law-was removed. The above tariff of fees was con- yers, though the legal fees are taxed in the bill of costs. The general law "regulating" attorneys, still worked so well, that in , it was continued, unaltered, fur three years and one session ; and in , for the space of seven years and one session after. N The stirring era of the revolution was now near at hand. Already were many of the causes in full operation, which led the " delegates and representatives of the several counties and corporations of Virginia," on the th of June, , to declare, that by the numerous acts of misrule, which they then enumerated, and which were afterwards recited in the celebrated Declaration of Independence, "the government of this country, as formerly exercised under the crown of Great Britain was TOTALLY DISSOLVED." The most solemn interests of a free people for several years demanded the attention of the legislature and the convention. A new system had in a great measure to be put in operation, and the old also modified to suit new circumstances and emergencies. A convention of the colony was held in Williamsburg, the capital, st August, ; and another in " Richmond town," in March, July and December, . An " Interregnum" of about a year took place ; George III. was dethroned in the "Ancient Dominion ;" and the colonial government dissolved. On the th of June, , " The representatives of the good people of Virginia, assembled in full and free convention," at Williamsburg, issued a Declaration of Rights, " which 'do pertain to them and their posterity, as the basis and foundation of government;" and on the th of June, adopted a " CONSTITUTIoN, OR FORM OF GOVERNMENT." The same day, the first great orator of Hanover county was elected the first independent governor ; and the first year of the COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA commenced. During the Interregnum, the following oath was prescribed for every attorney at law, before he could practise in any court: "I do solemnly promise and swear, that I will be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Virginia, and that I will well and truly demean myself in the office of an attorney at law. So help me God."I Of course, the administration of Justice, civil and criminal, was not suspended. An ordinance of the convention in May. , recites that, " WHEREAS it bath been found indispensably necessary to establish government in this colony, independent of the crown of Great Britain, or any authority derived therefrom, and a plan of such government bath been accordingly formed by the general convention ; but it will require some time to compile a body of laws suited to the circumstances of the country, and it is necessary to pro vide some method of preserving peace and security to the community in the mean time ;" and among other things, enacts that the common law of England and all her general statutes made in aid thereof, prior to the th year of the reign of James I., together with the acts of the colonial assembly then in force, so far as they may consist with the ordinances, declarations and resolutions of the general convention, shall be in full force, until altered by the legislature. Nor was the new Constitution silent on the subject of courts, &c. In and ', there was some legislation in reference to attorneys failing to enter an appearance, and to taxing their fees in the bills of costs ;—that of the year ' reviving and continuing the above law so long in force—from —but with the material alteration of raising the fees, and allowing a fee of ten pounds in the " high court of chancery." f And then, the statute book seems silent as to attorneys, till , except as to the salary of the attorney general, which was fixed successively, at £, ; £,; , lbs. of Tobacco, paid for quarterly in money, according to the valuation of the grand jury, at the preceding term of the general court ; and £, in specie, per annum. In , so much of the act of , specifying lawyers' fees and allowing them to be taxed in the bill of costs, as had been repealed by the act of , on the same subject, was restored ; the chief practical effect of which seems to have been to reduce the fees. And in the same year, the law of f, regulating the practice of attorneys," was revived. I In , each attorney's license in the inferior courts was taxed five pounds; which was altered the next session, by taxing an attorney in those courts, twenty shillings for every court in which he qualified. c} This has been improved upon, in very recent years, by an annual tax on all lawyers, of a per centage on their receipts, or a commutation in gross. In , a very vigorous rule of taxation was laid down. Before an attorney could appear in any court of the commonwealth, for plaintiff or defendant in any suit in which a fee might he taxed among the costs, he had to pay down to the clerk one-tenth of the legal fee, which proportion was to be paid by every attorney appearing on either side : a new tithe-system indeed ! The clerk was to be responsible for the said tenth part, whether he received it or not, and to keep an accurate memorandum of all the lawyers on either side. If he failed to make the entries, then he was to be accountable for what two lawyers would have paid, unless it was shown that no attorney did appear, * &c. Physicians, surgeons and apothecaries were also pretty well taxed. In , the taxes on them all were repealed. In and ', the laws indicate two species of neglect not very creditable to those guilty of them, viz., suffering suits to be dismissed by their negligence, which was to be done at their costs; and failing to pay over clients' money ; they were now to be compelled to pay in a summary way, on motion. f In , it was enacted that no person, but the attorney general, should practise as attorney or proctor in any court, unless licensed as heretofore described, or by three of the judges of the high court of chancery, or of the general court, in writing under their hands and seals ; but the candidate must bring them a certificate from the court of the county, in which he had resided for the last twelve months, of his honest demeanor : no one convicted of felony to practise law. If the general court by their own observation detected any teal-practice, or complaint in writing were made to them of any such mal-practice in any attorney, the accused was to be summoned to show cause why an information should not be filed against him ; and if on such information, he were found guilty, they could suspend his license or vacate it altogether, in that court or any county, city or borough court. The high court of chancery and the court of admiralty had the same powers in reference to those courts respectively. Counsel in the inferior courts were not allowed to practise in the higher ones. But this restriction was soon after () removed ; but counsel having appeared for the appellant in the court below, were not to prosecute the appeal. This exception or proviso was probably disregarded ; for in , it was re-enacted, and a penalty of twenty pounds denounced against whomever should appear for the same party in both courts, in the same cause. I Under these regulations slightly altered to this day, the profession has moved on for more than half a century, drawing to its ranks many bright ornaments ; often the brightest of the state and the Union. Even when the enactments were most severe, in the time of the colony, against the avaricious and corrupt spirit of attorneys, there were no doubt many shining exceptions and lofty exemplars among the colonial Bar. Indeed, the existence of such laws shows the prevalence of a high standard of honorable dealing, and a popular sentiment requiring strict integrity in professional matters, which were well calculated. in the lapse of time, to produce the most gratifying effects in those upon whom they operated. And on the other hand, a people jealous of their rights and impatient of the least appearance of extortion, may sometimes have done the lawyers injustice. But even supposing all the legislative denunciations against them fully merited, the spirit which exacted such fair and high-minded demeanor from the Bar, must have tended to elevate its lone and purify its ranks. Till at length the Virginia Bar was not unworthy of the Randolphs, the Wythes, the Tazewells, the Pendleions, the Wires, the Wiekhams and the Marshal!, who have adorned it. A PPENDIX. Since the above was written, we have found in a MS. Book, in Latin and Greek, belonging to the " Virginia His torieal Society," the following sketches of two of our Colonial lawyers, which are so illustrative of the foregoing paper, that we make no excuse for adding them. The MS• hook, in the end of which they appear, contains notes on Homer's Iliad, with a translation of many of the Greek terms into Latin. The sketches are probably by Sir John Randolph, highly distinguished as a lawyer and a scholar. He diedabout rim at the age of years, and a handsome tablet to his memory is embedded in the walls of the chapel of William and Mary College : the inscription upon it has already appeared in the Messenger. stances of Facts only, and leave it to the Court to collect the Matter of Fact out of them; so that upon such Verdicts we have had many tedious Debates about what the Fact was : Whereas if that had been found positively as it should be there would have been no Need of a Special Verdict : But against this I could never prevail. His greatest Excellence was his Diligence and Industry ; but for Learning I never thought he had any, nor could it he expected he should ; He had served a Clerkship ; went a youth afterwards into the Army in Ireland in the Beginning of Ring Wm's reign ; after that betook himself to Business having got to be one of the Attorneys of the Marshalsea Court ; but not being contented with his income from that, tumid Projector and rained himself ; which brought him first into Maryland and afterwards hither. I remember one particular Instance which satisfied me his knowledge in the Law was not very profound. An ejectment was brought (whether I was at first concerned in it I forget,) and upon a Special Verdict the Case was thus. A seised in Fee by Deed, gave the Land in Question to B his Daughter for Life and after her Death to her Heirs forever ; she sold to the Deft, and after her Death the Pk. B's Heir claiming as a Purchaser in Remainder brought this Action to recover. When I saw this I told the Ph. who was my Client, I could not say one word for him; not knowing a more certain Rule of Law than this: That where by Will or Conveyance any Estate of Freehold is given to the Ancestor and by the same Writing an Estate is limited to his Heirs; that makes a Fee [Heirs] being there a word of Limitation and not of Purchase. Yet the Deft. by this Eminent Lawyer's advice gave tip the Land without Argument, upon the Pit's allowing him to remain in Possession some short Time longer : when if the matter had been brought to a hearing, I would not have said one word. However, his reputation was such, that he was universally courted, and must people thought themselves obliged to him, if he would engage their side upon any terms; and he really thought so himself. This gave him great opportunities of exacting excessive Fees; which I have heard he always did, where the Value of the thing in Question would allow it : and covered great Blemishes in one part of his private Life besides many Imperfections of his Mind, which any Body might observe who knew any thing of him : He was of a haughty, insolent nature; passionate and peevish to the last Degree ; He had a Stiffness in his Carriage which was ridiculous and often offensive; and was an utter Stranger to Hospitality. He was sincere in his Friendship where he professed any„—but not constant, apt to change upon small provocations, and to contract new Friendships upon very slight Grounds. In which he would be very warm and ready to do all good offices. One of his greatest Defects was that he would always bring his opinion and Friendship to agree. But what he wanted in Virtue and Learning to recommend him was abundantly supplied by fortunate Accidents. He was years Speaker of the House of Burgesses and Il years Public Treasurer; But in those Ire acted with little Applause and less Abilities, tho he was three times chosen and once unanimously. His Management of the Treasury contributed to his Ruin, and brought him to the Grave with much Disgrace. I was always his Friend, and had a great deal of Reason to believe him mine. Yet it was impossible to he blind to so many Imperfections : He died little lamented in the th year of his age.' "In a few Daies afterwards in London died William Hopkins Esqr. who had practiced in this Court about I Years, and in that Time by hard Study, and Observation he made a surprising Progress ; became a very ingenious Lawyer and a good Pleader ; tho' at his first corning he was raw and much despised. But he bad a Carelessness in his Nature, which preserved him from being discouraged, and carried him on till he came to he admired. He had a good Foundation in School Learning, understood Latin and French well ; had a strong Memory, a good Judgment; a Quickness that was very visible ; and a handsome Person, All mighty Advantages. But his manner was awkward, his Temper Sower, if it was to be judged by the Action of his Muscles ; and was too much given to laugh at his own Discourses. When he had brought himself into good Business, he almost totally neglected it ; which l believe was owing to a Desire of Dipping into all Kinds of Knowledge ; wherein he had a great Deal of Vanity, and prevented his Digesting what he had, so well as he would have done otherwise. He had many good Qualities in his Practice ; was moderate in his Fees ; Ingenious and honest ; never disputed plain Points, but was a candid fair Arguer. Yet he had a failing which brought him to a Quarrel with me. It was an odd Sort of Pride that would not suffer him to keep an Equilibrium in his own Conceits : He could not see himself admired, without thinking it an Injury to him to stand upon a level with any other. And therefore tho' I was always his Friend, had done him many Kindnesses, and he himself thought himself obliged to me, He came into so ill a Temper, as not to allow me either Learning or Honesty ; which broke our acquaintance and after that I thought I discovered some Seeds of Malice in him. He died in the Flower of his Age, and may be justly reekon'd a Loss to this poor Country, which is not like to abound (at present at least) in Great Genius's." WISE LIBERALITY. Great admiration has been very justly excited by the liberal donation of fifty thousand dollars, recently made to Harvard University, by the HON. ABBOTT LAWRENCE. In this there is wisdom as well as liberality. There is wisdom in such liberality itself. It is wise thus to invest the superfluities granted by a beneficent Providence, in the improvement and consequent gratitude of posterity. In this way a man evades the awful robbery of death, which strips him so ruthlessly of all his earthly possessions; and carries out beyond the grave the noblest uses of riches, whose ready wings are thus clipped that they can not "flee away." Such an appropriation of their earthly substance is, for these and similar reasons, frequently made to a liberal extent by persons who can no longer use it themselves ;—in their last wills. But how often do their fond schemes fail of realization ; and how often does culpable delay robtheir beneficence of half its value. The good which many have intended and which they,—being men of prudence and discretion and well comprehending the objects they had in view,—could very probably have secured, by undertaking its accomplishment themselves, has been long deferred and then imperfectly realised. How different would have been the condition of Girard College had its founder himself executed his own will. He might have lived even splendidly,—for which he had no taste,—upon a small portion of his immense wealth, and have devoted the rest to the establishment of his College; and his strong practical mind, gathering aid and information from every available source, would then have had the management and execution of all his plans. 