Mr. Lawrence's wisdom, then, is conspicuous in this, that he lives to see his wishes accomplished ; to lend the aid of his judgment and experience in arranging the details with the corporation of Harvard ; to enjoy the honorable encomiums which his munificence merits ; and, we trust, to witness and enjoy still more the important benefits to others which he contemplates. "The liberal man cleviseth liberal things." The wisely liberal man, warned by repeated experiences in the world around him, will not postpone till the hour of dissolution the blessings he "devises" for his fellow-men, Mr. Lawrence's wealth is said to be so great, that this donation is only a fraction of his yearly income. Be this as it may, a question occurs to us, how much may a man reasonably expect to possess to feel himself able to make liberal donations to objects and Institutions of high public utility? Take a man of liberal views and principles, but with small resources,—sufficient, however, to maintain him creditably ;—and then perhaps he " deviseth liberal things," if he only had the means, An accession of fifty thousand dollars to his means would be consIdered a fortune, and would add elegance and luxury to his style of living, and hush his anxieties for his children. Suppose that such an accession should amount to one hundred thousand dollars, or even more. How much could be then spare for the objects specified? Too few spare any thing like what they might, and the most liberal donations of many are proportionately but a mite to the contributions of the less fortunate. But surely those who possess a hundred thousand dollars, or more, would not miss ten thousand; and by prudent management could soon replace it. To all such, numerous objects make continual and eloquent appeals. Besides all the various schemes and operations of Christian benevolence, are our languishing and indebted Literary Institutions, and the " Historical Society of Virginia." And even where our Literary Institutions are not hampered by debt, their usefulness might be extended by the introduction of new branches of study and the erection of new professorships for their cultivation. State munificence is more likely to be stimulated than diminished by being united with that of private individuals, who thus practically aid and uphold the Liberal Policy of the Legislature. In the case before us, which has led to these remarks, Mr. Lawrence's design is to establish in the University at Cambridge, a school to promote " the acquisition, illustration and dissemination of the practical sciences forever." It is to embrace three professorships,—of Geology, Engineering and Chemistry. That of Chemistry has already been established upon an enlarged plan, under Professor Hereford, a pupil of Baron Liebig, and supported on the foundation created by Count Rumford. Mr. Lawrence shews the utility of the proposed school, in a very satisfactory manner- We conclude with a few extracts from his letter, tendering his donation, addressed to the Treasurer of Harvard college,—the Hon. Samuel A. Elliot. "The application of science to the useful arts has changed, in the last half century, the condition and relations of the world. It seems to me that we have been somewhat neglectful in the cultivation and encouragement of the seientific portion of our national economy. " Our country is rapidly increasing in population and wealth, and is probably destined in another quarter of a century to contain nearly as many inhabitants as now exist in France and England together. " We have already in the United States a large body of young men who have received a classical education, many of whom find it difficult to obtain a livelihood in what are termed the learned professions. I believe the time has arrived when we should make an effort to diversify the occupation of our people. and develop more fully their strong mental and physical resources, throughout the Union." "But where can we send those who intend to devote themselves to the practical applications of science ? How educate our engineers, our miners, machinists and mechanics? Our country abounds in men of action. Hard hands are ready to work upon our hard materials ; and where shall sagacious heads be taught to direct those hands? Inventive men laboriously reinvent what has been pro- THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. We are indebted to Dr. MeGaffey for a copy of the Catalogue of the University, for the p resent session,—its t we ntysecond, we believe. The whole number of matriculates the present session,— no w just closing—has been one hundred and sixty-three; who have conducted themselves in a manner highly honorable to themselves and beneficial to the University. It will be recollected that at the close of the last session, a new Proctor was elected,—Colonel Kemper; and that Major Broaddus wasappointed to take charge of the beneficiaries, or State students. These are both gentlemen of character and influence, and we are highly gratified to learn, that the wholesome police of the College is now preserved with more efficiency and success than it has ever been before. The new system of instructing students on the State foundation has thus far worked very happily. The best feelings prevail between them and the other students, and in nearly every instance they have proved themselves worthy, in respect both of talent and behavior, of the benefits of a higher education thus conferred upon them. The session at the University now closes on the th of June. The exercises this year will be particularly interesting and attractive. In addition to those of the students, will be an Oration before the Alumni, by Wm. M. Burwell, Esq., an Eulogy on the lamented Professor Davis, by Lucian Minor, Esq., and an Historical Discourse, by the Hon. William C. Rives. By putting these matters relating to the University in juxtaposition with the donation of Mr. Lawrence, perchance it may remind some one to perform a similar act to her, or some of her sister colleges in our own, or some other Southern State t--such an acquisition to any and all of whom would be to us exceedingly welcome and delightful. June th. THE IMPARTIALITY OF HISTORY. Impartiality in History is what all profess to admire, as they do candor and independence in individuals. But these so universally applauded in the abstract, are often unobserved, disputed, or censured, when particular applications of them are made that do not accord with our preconceived notions of what impartiality, candor, and independence require, and in what they consist. This is only one of the exemplifications of the difference between theory and practice. For example,—in the abstract, it may well be admitted that much may be said in defence, or extenuation of the tories or loyalists of our Revolution ; and that sufficient time has elapsed for them now to be treated with justice and with impartiality. But when the accounts of the times in which they acted come to be written, immediately exciting controversies spring up, involving near descendants of the persons whose deeds are recorded. Such a controversy has arisen in the pages of the Messenger ; but we do not deprecate it, because one of the uses of such a journal is to furnish a channel for such investigations. But we wish it to be understood that we hold only to the general views with which we set out ; and leave the question of their application to the facts of the case, to the Reviewer and to the author of "Curwen's Journal." We have reason to suppose that parts of this controversy are unwelcome to particular individuals and families in S. C. ; and as is too usual in such cases, they may not only condemn the Messenger, but even " cut its acquaintance." But none of these things move us. Our guiding principles are fixed. We can bear to hear both sides, though our sympathies are strongly with one of them. We edit a Journal for the Public and for Truth and Impartiality. This subject naturally brines before us a work upon our table, The American. Loyalists. By Lorenzo Sabine. Published by Little . Brown, of Boston, and sent to us through C. F. Fisher, bookseller of this city. It is an extensive Biographical Dictionary of the Loyalists of the Revolution ; with an introductory Essay applicable to the subject. This Essay, after a careful perusal, appears to us a specimen of original, independent and impartial historical writing,—such as is rarely to be met with. Written by a decided Whig, it yet does justice to the Tories; by a northern man, it yet shows no invidious spirit towards the South. From some passages we were afraid that we would have to withhold this last encomium, but after considering the whole range of the Essay, we think that it is entitled to it to an unusual degree. There are some points upon which we would animadvert, however, had we the space. We may do it hereafter. A. correspondent in Georgia writes us : " When on the subject of ' the Legal Profession,' * you omitted to give an account of the regulators in North Carolina, about . They were for the destruction of all officers of government, and all Lawyers, and prostrating Government itself. Governor Tryon marched against them, and having, in a decisive battle, totally defeated them, the insurrection was quelled, and order restored. The writer of this has cause to recollect the account of the above transaction, as his Father had a ball of one of the insurgents to pass through his body, about the region of the stomach, which he survived more than sixty years." Before receiving this, we had been reminded of the instance referred to, by reading Mr. Sabine's book. And lest. any should suppose that these early revolutionists so opposed to the lawyers were the true friends of American Liberty, we state upon that author's authority, that "a large majority joined the royal party, and enlisted under the King's banner." The publishers have executed their part of the work in a most admirable manner. For other New Works, and Literary Miscellany, see Cover. * An article in the June Messenger ; and which we unintentionally omitted to say first appeared in the N. Y. " Legal Observer." it was first announced that the Mes-	To " compose and cast off a book" from the materials at hand, especially on our Colonial History, would have been an easy task ; but this would not have gratified ambition, nor have been worthy of the theme. The only recourse left was to wait, until with information enlarged by study, views formed and confirmed by careful examination, and a consistency of purpose derived from a survey of the whole ground, the work could be undertaken with the prospect of executing it at least less unworthily. In the meantime, but still in view of this ulterior design, the series of " Contributionsx to the History of Virginia" were commenced, with the hope that they might hereafter be corrected, improved and reproduced in a form which might be stamped with the title of When senger for would contain a History of Virginia, we had it chiefly in contemplation to continue the " Contributions" which we had commenced in our last volume. For several years the History of our native State, the first and foremost of the Colonies, and of " The Old Thirteen," had presented to our mind a most inviting field, and we had resolved to occupy it. But it was due to the State, the subject and the reputation of an author, to bestow every pains to avoid a crude and hasty production. For we had very much the idea of Cervantes, that " it requires great judgment and a ripe understanding to compose histories : History is a sacred subject, because the soul of it is truth, and where truth is, there the divinity will reside ;" and we had little patience with those " who compose and cast off books, as if they were tossing up a dish of pancakes." *If Dr. Hawks, the best historian of Virginia who has yet written, deemed it proper to style his work only " Contributions," it seemed much more becoming in us. " A History." Whether this hope will ever be realized, Time must determine. But we found by experience that the constant and multifarious duties of an editor were likely to produce interruptions in these "Contributions ;" and had felt that unless the mind were in full possession of the whole scope of the subject, the danger of inaccuracy and inconsistency was greatly increased by writing in separate portions. Impressed with this disadvantage, and having promised to our readers a History of Virginia, we thought it best to try and secure the publication in the Messenger of the work of a friend, Mr. Charles Campbell, of Petersburg, and we found him ready, with great liberality, to second our views. Mr. Campbell seems to have had an hereditary interest t in Virginia History ; and for years has been zealously, almost enthusiastically, engaged in researches into it, blending with the subject enough of its antiquities to add a zest and ensure accuracy. He has visited and identified many of the most interesting localities and recalled their old associations ; he has gathered many rare relics and other materials, and procured works difficult of access. From these and the ordinary sources, he has, after several years devoted to the task, produced a History of our State down to the close of the American Revolution. This work he has had by him in its finished state nearly two years, and has continued to revise and improve it. So that there is reason to expect that it will be the most interesting, authentic and instructive work on our History that has yet been presented to the Public. The author's diffidence and exalted idea of the aims and requisites of a literary work, claiming public favor, have been obstacles in the way of its earlier appearance. As it has been prepared with so much care, and comes down to so late a period, we believe that we shall render the public a service by promoting its publication ; for it can be only a benefit to them to have as wide a range of selection and as extensive means of information as possible. There are at least two other Histories of Virginia now in progress; and we hope that they, too, will be issued from the press, as soon as they are sufficiently perfected. Mr. Campbell's History can not fail to be a most acceptable offering to a very large number of our people. Of course, it will be to the residents of Virginia ; especially to that large and respectable class who justly pride themselves upon their honorable connection with the past,—illustrated as it is by the deeds of their immediate ancestry. And this is applicable not only to " Old Virginia," but to Western Virginia, whose achievements are also embraced in the narrative of the author : Point Pleasant stands proudly by the side of the battle-fields of the East. There is another class to whom it cannot fail to be equally as acceptable ; and in part, for the same reasons. Every State in the Union numbers among her sons,—many among their most distinguished sons,—natives of the " Old Dominion," whose hearts never will, never can forget her. It has been our lot to meet many such in various States of the Union, and we have ever received conclusive proof of their unaltered devotion to their native State. This work may also be welcomed by the citizens of every State in the confederacy, because Virginia was the first Colony planted by England in America ; and however we may differ now as to her relative position among her sister and her daughter States, yet up to the close of the history before us, and for years afterwards, she enjoyed and was entitled to marked preeminence. For our own part, we believe that in most respects,—and those of the higher order in reference to national grandeur,—her position is as honorable as ever ; though an undue estimate of physical or material progress may have led others to a conclusion so opposite. To these, especially, we recommend the study of our history, that the contemplation of what Virginia has been and what she has done, may at least soften,—if it do not silence,—the aspersions cast upon her. At the same time, every one of her sons should strive to make her present and future renown worthy of that which certainly crowns her in the past. The interests of literary publications and institutions are inseparable. Without education, works will neither be written nor appreciated, and one of the chief objects of periodicals should be to uphold and promote the institutions of learning. The University of Virginia is emphatically the institution of the South, as will appear from an inspection of her catalogues. Her alumni are scattered over nearly half the States of the Union ; but, wherever they may be, their hearts must yearn towards their alma mater; and their minds must turn with fond recollection to the time spent within her walls. Recalling the pleasures of that joyous season, and daily reaping the fruits of the instruction there received, they can but feel a lively interest in her prosperity. To them and to all your . numerous readers, I would make your valuable work, the " Messenger," bear the claims which she now has upon their sympathy and action. Yours is truly the Southern Literary Messenger; and through no other channel can the claims of the University be more properly presented. To the North, too, we would send the name of our University ; for we would be glad to see many of the sons of the Northern states in Southern colleges. Whilst the Union exists, (and may it forever,) it should be cherished ; and in no way can more lasting and endearing ties be formed,—ties which will bind us to the soil over which we have roamed, to the companions with whom we have trod the paths of knowledge, to the state which has reared institutions for the improvement of our youthful minds, and to all who have extended to us the hand of fellowship, kindness and hospitality. Your magazine is rapidly extending its circulation in the Northern and Middle states, and drawing many of their ablest writers into the list of its contributors. It may therefore well be made the means of rightly informing the many there, as to the true rank and character of Our state institution. The loss of Professors Bonnycastle and Davis, gave the University just cause to mourn. They were among her chief supports, and were taken away in the meridian of their usefulness. We cannot forbear a slight tribute to their memory. Mr. Bonnycastle was one of the early professors who came over from England with Mr. Gilmer in . Though young, his high qualifications fitted him alike for several of the chairs in the University. He first filled that of Natural Philosophy, and, on the return of Mr. Key to England, succeeded to the mathematical, which he filled with prOminent ability up to the time of his death. He was always acknowledged to be the possessor of a great mind, which readily made him master of the most abstruse learning. The study of mathematics seemed to be to him but a process of attentive reading. As a lecturer, he was clear, patient ,C Jigy fli r gU.	CIA and powerful ; and, in matters of science, he was a complete agrarian, levelling its difficulties to the comprehension of every mind. At times, in one short aphorism, be would display a profundity of thought quite startling ; and his students declared, that, by way of illustration, he frequently solved difficulties which had perplexed them in other branches of their studies. Mathematics was rendered by him, what he repeatedly said it was, "a pure system of logic." Many parts of his course were supplied by himself; and he wrote a text book for his class, which gained him great renown. It has been already stated, that his acquirements were not confined to his own department; nor were they even to science. He was fond of rambling through the rich and varied fields of literature, and culled their fair flowers with no little taste and judgment. His general reading was extensive, he was a graceful and an imaginative writer, as is shown by the few productions which he has left, and his conversation was unusually entertaining and instructive. In society and at home, he was often taciturn ; and it was only at certain times that he opened his stores of information ; but when he did, he never failed to charm and to surprise. He was a man of thought, rather than of feeling, and, though he was observant of his duty, and mindful of his obligations, he acted more from the convictions of a well-regulated mind, than from any prompting of the heart. His character has been misunderstood. He was neither selfish, nor austere. The intellectual predominated ; but he was not devoid of beovolence. His habits of deep reflection made him'often indifferent to what was passing around him ; and, in his moods of abstraction, he would sit id the midst of his playful children, perfectly unconscious of their bewitching gambols. Their easy confidence and familiarity proved that there was no austerity in his nature. In his domestic relations.he was exemplary. He married a Virginia lady ; and whatever deficiency of the softer and benevolent feelings of our nature, there was in his character, was amply supplied by her amiability and overflowing kindness. I do not know that he ever became a citizen of the United States, though he frequently spoke of his intention to do so. He thought very favorably of our country and her institutions. Mr. Bonnycastle was a close student ; and, perhaps, his devotion to study led to a premature death. He took very little exercise, studied in an unhealthy posture, and until a late hour of the night. The University sustained a great loss in his death ; and may his successor prove it not irreparable. Of Professor Davis much has already been said in the public prints ; and he deserved all the eulo- giums which have been pronounced upon him ; for he deserved the highest. With the respect and affection for him, produced by a sense of his many excellencies and of the kindness received at his hands. His eulogy should be written in the choicest language. He combined the qualifications of mind, disposition and character requisite to constitute a professor. His kindness was bestowed upon all, and all were endeared to him. He stood by the student's sick bed, supplied his wants, alleviated his sufferings, and received his last muttered benediction, as he died far from friends and home. As chairman of the faculty, to which office he was repeatedly elected, he was untiring in his zeal, and impartial in enforcing the discipline ; he met his sad end in attempting to preserve the good order of the institution. He was modest almost to diffidence, but never shrank from any post to which duty called, though it was plain that he never prided himself upon the petty distinction conferred by the position in which he was placed. His mind was not brilliant, but he was an assiduous and accurate student, an able professor, and was fast raising the standard of his department to the highest in the land. His punctuality was remarkable ; and the student was never encouraged to be idle or inattentive, by the absence or dilatoriness of the professor. Disease and crime removed these Professors, and inflicted a serious blow upon the pride of Virginia. But disgrace has also done its part ; which is mainly attributable to the neglect and inaction of the Visiters. Dr. Bleetterman, who was displaced for gross misconduct, was also one of the professors brought over by Mr. Gilmer. He was always said to be a man of great attainments, but it is doubtful whether he has added any thing to his information for several years past. His habits and character rendered him totally unfit for his office, had he been the most resplendent genius. The Visiters would not have assigned him any important part in the government of the institution, and yet retained him as an instructor, in despite of his well known improper conduct. For several sessions the students openly complained of his unfitness ; and it was a common jest that he was retained because of his acquaintance with the Anglo-Saxon language, which was said to be a great hobby of one of the Visiters. In , a large number of students, thinking that their duty required it, signed and presented to the Board a memorial praying to have him removed. The Visiters would not grant the prayer, though they had themselves reduced his salary for the same offences with which the students charged him. It was not until he plainly degraded himself, that they had the independence to dismiss him. Thus a vague fear of giving of- fence, and of doing injustice to individuals, causes men to be retained in office to the public detri- ment, when their unfitness is manifest. These things are not said in malice against the dismissed admiration of the writer, was mingled a feeling of professor, nor in angry feeling against any one ; 	University of Virginia.	[JANUARY, but in love and zeal for the University, whose cause should be advocated plainly and positively. Public attention was drawn to the University in a special manner by the death of Professor Davis, who was shot down by the hand which should have been raised in his defence, as the students' guardian and guide. This occurrence may have sent tenor to the mind of many an anxious parent, who has perhaps resolved never to send a son to such a lawless place. Indeed, rumors have reached us, that students left the scene of so barbarous a deed in deep disgust. There is neither wisdom nor virtue in the resolution of the parent, nor in the conduct of such students. Properly considered, there is nothing in the present circumstances of the University to induce any to withdraw their confidence and support. If those professing to he her friends take unnecessary alarm, and yield to distrust, how can she hope for relief! Let their encouragement rather be increased ; and errors will be rectified, her influence elevated and extended, and she will soon go forth the pride of every Virginian, the boast of every upholder. No institution should be encouraged where vice and immorality are not put down, or where any thing allied to them, is tolerated. Are they tolerated at the University ? Far from it. They are severely rebuked and punished; whilst every means of prevention is anxiously sought and adopted. Examine the laws of the University of Virginia, and learn how they are enforced, and it will appear that the discipline, though mild, is firm, moral, and, to a certain degree, religions. There is scarcely an institution in the country, whose statute hook contains more moral and salutary regulations. Many persons, remembering a period in her history, to which none of her friends revert with satisfaction, look upon her as a horrid school for the morals of young men. They have not read her late history; they even forget what important reformations a few years may bring about. The system of discipline instituted by Mr. Jefferson proved, even in his day, to be impracticable ; and now, it has advocates only among those who speak what they hope and wish, rather than what they know and believe, of the character of young men. This system, which " undertook to conduct a body of youth by appeals to their reason, their hopes, and to every generous feeling, rather than to the fear of punishment, or dread of disgrace," while it ennobled the character of the students, gave them a license, of which, it is too well remembered, they most liberally availed themselves. On one memorable occasion, it required the appeals of Jefferson, Madison and Johnson to reach " their reason, hopes, and generous feelings." Some few have neither of these, and cannot be restrained by " the fear of punishment," nor the "dread of disgrace." In every society laws are made for the worst. There may still be some, who cannot get over " that late shocking occurrence." It should never be so far forgotten, that indignation shall cease to burn ; but it should not affect the institution. What law could have unnerved the arm, or changed the purpose of him who perpetrated that deed It was not the laws of the University which forbade it, and which he violated ; but the laws of God and man. There was nothing in the place, nor its regu- lations, to prompt such a reckless spirit. It would have broken loose in realms of purity. Yea, it did break out there ; and it would be as signal folly for men to turn their backs on the glories of Heaven, because Lucifer there raised the standard of rebellion, as to withdraw their support from the University because one had done his utmost to trample upon her laws. But all this will work for good, and tend to the good order of the College. The feeling will react ; and the loss of so beloved a professor, in so shocking a manner, will make a lasting and deep impression on the minds of the students, which will regulate and restrain them for sessions to come. Such occurrences invariably lead to greater circumspection ; and the vigilance of the faculty, aided by the diligence and " vehement desire" of the students, will produce the most beneficial results. Who can believe, that a student, with the recollection of Professor Davis' fate fresh on his mind, could wantonly indulge in rioting! Nor can the remembrance of it be easily erased : it will be perpetuated ; and the anxiety of the professors, the indignation and grief of the students, and the sympathy of every one, conspire to render this session, if properly improved, the most auspicious for the University. Let her alumni, then, feel for her, act for her, and assemble to consult for her. Let them flock around her in numbers at their next meeting. They owe her much, and should endeavor at least to pay her a little. But it would be idle and unfaithful to the interests of education, to maintain the cause of an institution, which is not worthy of it. The University is entitled to high praise ; and, notwithstanding some defects in her organization, she is dispensing the treasures of science with a profuse hand. Still the eye of hope and solicitude beholds a position far above her present commanding one, to which she should and can be elevated.— This, however, depends mainly upon the Visiters, who have the controlling influence. The buildings are ample, the apparatus extensive, and every thing is ready for a noble college. The number of students has been large for several sessions, and may be greatly increased by proper management. The newly appointed professors are now all at their post, and the University is going on under their auspices. Hope attributes to them every qualification requisite in professors ; and confidence, so far as it can be based upon limited information, or bestowed upon untried men, rests ii&VG CI) r -'tHi. upon them. Indeed they have all been tried in neglected by a majority of the students. If a deother, but similar situations, and the friends and partment of English literature were established, patrons of the University may banish their appre embracing exercises in composition and oratory hensions and suspicions as groundless and fruitless. and a course of history, it would be one of the Professors Tucker, Sylvester, and Kraitser fulfil the most useful and interesting schools in the instituindispensable requisition of reputation and distinc tion. The expense is the only difficulty. Its benetion in their respective departments ; and students fits would justify any expenditure. Cannot the may flock to them to learn, what they, by study and society of alumni do something towards it by means experience, have already fitted themselves to teach. of annual contributions, and devise some mode in The time has now arrived when an important which contributions can be obtained from those dechange might be made in the Board of Visiters. sirous of promoting intellectual improvement A The University went into operation in , and small sum contributed each year by the alumni many of her alumni are now at the proper age to would gradually accumulate ; and the Legislature, be entrusted with her guardianship. The alumni witnessing so laudable an effort, would lend its aid have formed a society, which, if it bring together by making an appropriation. The annual approannually ever so small a number, will be produc priation by the State is fifteen thousand dollars. tive of great good. If the power of appointing Deducting the salaries of the nine professors, the Visiters were vested in this society, it would give sum of five thousand dollars is left—a portion of it a dignity and permanence which would greatly which might be set apart for the purpose of opening increase its usefulness. It would then be more this new school. The original plan was to have ten closely linked to the University ; its objects would professors, and to include several important branbecome more definite; its members would have an ches now omitted in the course of studies; which, inducement to meet; and would come annually with however, is very thorough and extensive. hearts overflowing with love and zeal for their alma Experiment has proved that Mr. Jefferson commater. There can be no doubt that the power of mitted one great error in the system of governappointment would be as judiciously exercised by ment which he sought to establish in the Univerthis society, as it is by the Executive. This, sity. But this was " as the dust of the balance" however, would require an alteration in the char to that of banishing religion from her walls. The ter ; but the Governor, by appointing alumni, will whole should have been planned and executed in strengthen the bonds of affection, and promote the reliance upon Divine aid and direction ; for nothing interests of the institution. The next th of Feb can be truer than " except the Lord build the house, ruary will give him an opportunity of trying it. It they labor in vain who build it." Without being is pleasing to anticipate the time, when the distin superstitious, the overruling hand of Providence guished and honored shall assemble as alumni of must be acknowledged ; and apprehensions sometheir beloved University; when presidents, sena times arise lest Heaven has decreed the fall of the tors, and others high in authority, shall deem it an University, in order to prove to man the folly and honor to he classed among her sons. Then we impiety of founding such institutions, without invomay look for a revival of Virginia's glory, when king its blessing. Religion cannot be safely sepathe greatest orators shall incite her youth to love, rated from any human undertaking. For literature to venerate and labor for her in those halls which and science to produce their salutary effects upon she has provided for the advancement of literature the mind and heart—to make man better as they and science.	make him wiser—they must be associated with, There is one palpable defect, Mr. Editor, in the and tempered by, religion ; nor should their consystem of instruction pursued at the University. nection be slight and incidental, but designed and There is no department for exercises in writing intimate. The system of Mr. Jefferson has been and speaking. Every Northern College has such abandoned; and there are now regular religious sera department : and it is this which gives such an vices twice a-week, and the students pay marked interest to the literary societies, and renders them respect to the minister. But the fact of having a productive of so much profit and pleasure. At the chaplain is a small matter. He must not be looked University, there is a class of belle-lettres, and upon as a mere preacher and sermonizer on Sunthe members are occasionally required to submit days, but as pastor and instructor in religious mattheir productions to the criticism of the Professor. ters; not as a mere appendage, but as an imporThere are debating societies also, but very little tant, an essential part of the institution. Religion writing is practised; and speaking is done so care must be admitted, not as a secondary matter, but lessly, and with so little preparation, as to yield as of primary concern ; not as an incident, but an but little improvement. Writing and speaking in essential ; not through complaisance to public opinduce students to read ; and at the North each one ion, to allay the fears of anxious parents, nor as a takes out his book, with nearly as much regularity compromise between the opposition of Mr. Jefferas he goes to his meals ; whilst the large and son, and the convictions of the Visiters. Every choice library of the University, is almost entirely social fabric must fall—its materials will become corrupt and rotten, unless the spirit of pure religion be incorporated with them and made their preserver. It is much a habit to decry the externals of religion. These are all important, not as superseding the substance and the spirit, but as manifesting and embodying that spirit. In the University, the services are performed in the lecture-room, which is very inconveniently arranged, and where the mind is diverted by a thousand perceptions and associations. Every thing in connection with the spirituel of that institution would show, if we did not know the fact, that the introduction of religion was an afterthought. In all her extensive arrangements, there is not a single accommodation for religion. The association of ideas is powerful, and there is very little in the religious services of the University calculated to inspire the minds of the students with a sense of their essentiality. Nearly every thing tends to make their feelings permissive rather than submissive ; tolerant, rather than tenacious ; complaisant, rather than obedient and attached. The first thing to be done is to erect a suitable chapel. The faculty are anxious for this to be effected, and presented a memorial to the Visiters on the subject. At the request of the writer, Professor Bonnycastle drew up an eloquent memorial to be presented on the part of the students ; but as circumstances prevented the signatures from being obtained, it was not handed in. A chapel is not only necessary for the religious services, but for public occasions, anniversary orations, the use of societies, and for important meetings of the students, when they wish to do honor to the memory of a departed fellow-student or professor. It will also be useful as an ornament,—and this dreadful hiatus, so painfully obvious to every Christian friend of the institution, should be speedily supplied. This object is so important, that, if no better plan can be devised, the Visiters would be justified in sending special agents through the country asking donations. One of the chaplains promised to raise five thousand dollars from his branch of the Christian church ; and, no doubt, the requisite amount can be obtained. One session is, moreover, too short a period for a chaplain to remain. Get a good one and retain him longer. There might still be rotation, but not such frequent rotation. This theme is not yet exhausted; but we fear we have written too much ; not more however, than the importance of the subject demanded. If any abler pen shall be incited to pursue it, we shall be highly gratified. The foregoing considerations, Mr. Editor, are deemed worthy of the attention of the Visiters and Alumni especially ; but the public generally are greatly interested in this matter. Their sons are to be educated ; the benefits of education cannot be confined to the recipient, but are reflected from him to all around. Let them, then, take the welfare of the University somewhat into their own hands—guard her, watch over her, and lend her their zeal and a small portion of their treasure. She will repay both ; and they will rear an institution, in which it will be a proud distinction for their sons to be tutored. They will make Virginia the literary centre of the South; the fame of her splendid seat of learning will draw students from every quarter; and one common sentiment, together with a high degree of intelligence, will pervade our common country. Will men practically confess that nothing but political contention can excite their zeal and efforts I Will they not, then, raise up some place, where representatives and electors may be qualified rightly to discharge their respective duties, whence knowledge may be diffused, and men taught to settle questions by discussion, and not by disputing—by argument, and not abusive wrangling ? There are thousands who seek to justify their faith and practice by the precepts and example of Jefferson. Will they stop short and not imitate his zeal for the prosperity of the University, which he, their political paragon, founded I Let them all remember, that he did not most glory in that, for which, they most laud him. He wrote his own epitaph ; and the simple granite obelisk, which marks his tomb, bears no such inscription as " The Leader of the Democracy." We learn from it, that he was the "Author of the Declaration of American Independence," and " of the Statute of Virginia for Religious Freedom." This is not all that we learn. American independence is to be perpetuated, and religious freedom to be secured. Ignorance is the foe of both, and must be vanquished. His unsatisfied spirit sought another and a crowning honor; and he became " The father of the University of Virginia."
