A Few Thoughts on the Death of John C. Calhoun. In our last number, there was published a noble tribute to the memory of the late Mr. Calhoun, written upon the immediate occasion of his death. We give below some reflections on the same melancholy theme from another hand—a gentleman who, though still young, was honored with the intimate acquaintance of the illustrious and lamented senator, to a degree perhaps not extended to any other person out of the immediate circle of his family. The article reached us too late for publication in May, but it will be none the less acceptable to the general reader at this time.—Ed. Sou. Lit. Mess. "Now is the stately cohlumbroke, The beacon light is quenched in smoke, The trumpet's silver sound is still, The warder silent on the hill." No journal, calling itself Southern, can pass unnoticed the death of the great Southerner, or fail to pay its tribute to the memory of the great American, whom the federated nations of our States now lament. John Caldwell Calhoun was in truth the great American, for no one in modern times more thoroughly understood those principles of human liberty, which it was the mis- sion of our people to spread over a vast continent. He was still more the great Southerner, for he was a perfect master of the arts of gov- ernment and the social organization which are peculiar to the South, and which are the indispensable means of success in fulfilling that mission. - The storm of civil commotion, which raged throughout the land, has been for a moment hushed; the din and tumult of the battle has been stilled, while we listened to the knell that tolled for the departed spirit of our great leader. Death has struck a blow which went home to the hearts of all, both of those who differed, and those who agreed .with him in opinion ; for all feel that a mighty man has fallen in Israel ; nay more—all feel that an honest councillor, a true-hearted lover of his country has been taken from amongst us. We may have lost men whom some thought greater, or in whose political creed a larger number accorded; but never, since the death of Washington. has there been any statesman, in the purity of whose virtue there was such universal confidence. His friends, his great rivals,—nay, his foes, the very abolitionists,—render him this just tribute. We cannot too deeply feel the loss of such a man at a time like this, when the darkest night involves our skies, and the ship of state, with torn sails and broken masts, no longer knows her rudder, but drifts on to unknown seas. The holy traditions of the Revolution are passing away, and with them pass the great statesmen who were brought up at the feet of the Gamaliels of that day,—men, who, in their youth, drank at the very fountainheads of American liberty. A few mighty oaks still attest the grandeur of the primeval forest, but how soon mast they fall before Time, the Destroyer. Calhoun has gone, and when the two or three of his contemporaries yet left, shall have followed, who will be left to command public confidence by fidelity tried in a thousand battles, and gigantic intellects, which in It is perhaps too soon to appreciate Calhoun's character justly. Our eyes are still dazzled by the blaze of his genius, and our hearts still gush with love for his virtues. We may safely commit our statesman's fame to the keeping of an impartial posterity. A nd yet its impartiality will arise from the distance which separates it front him; its judgment will be cool, becauselt has not had our opportunities of knowing and of seeingthe great man we have so honored and so loved, and it is a deep philosophy which teaches us that no human being can be thoroughly known, until love brings his nature into communion with ours. We cannot then forbear adding our feeble quota to the materials on which posterity will form its judgment ; we do so to gratify our own feelings, and not in the vain hope of adorning that sepulchre of glory, where Calhoun Mr. Calhoun's mind combined, in a rare degree, all the qualities which constitute an intellect of the highest order. The demonstrative faculty was wonderfully strong; no man in our country, since- Marshall, has been his equal, as a logician. His arguments are adamantine chains ;—admit the first proposition, and the conclusion is inevitable. Like Marshall, he thought that the great art of logic was in rightly putting that first proposition, and in the statement of his case. He would begin with something so plain, and which seemed so far removed from the point in issue, that his opponents would sneer at it as a barren abstraction, or a useless truism. And yet he would soon show it to be identical with the very conclusion he was seeking to establish. But this logical power does not, of itself, make a first-rate mind. It has often been highly developed in men, who were unable to make any durable impression on the course of human affairs. Such men are the great majority of the intellectual laborers of the world, and their appropriate office is to work upon the materials and premises, which are furnished by the few master minds who stamp their image upon the coin of thought, which shall pass current through all ages. Such creative genius is always accompanied by a suggestive style in writing and speaking. A broad line divides all the works of these two classes of mind. We may be delighted with the beauty of a poem, the eloquence of an oration, or the close, keen logic of a demonstration; but if they are the work of a man of mere talents, their effect is transitory. Our minds are not stirred up to new trains of thought, but passively repeat the ideas and images that are presented to us. Not so with the language of true genius, with the suggestive style, filled with the seeds of thought, which are ever ready to burst into grand fruit-bearing trees if they fall on a kindly soil. To preserve unity of composition, such an author may keep closely to his subject; he may• reject all adventitious ornaments, and all digressive thoughts; he may condense, till every idea and every word bears directly on his subject, and such was pre-eminently the case with Calhoun. And yet his writings cannot be read passively. Our minds are roused to the exertion of thinking over,—(and this is very different from mere reading,)—his thoughts, and these are ever opening before the reader new tracks of kindred thought, which indicate the manifold relations of the author's ideas to the system of universal truth. This has been characteristic of the mighty masters of thought in all ages, of the Platos and Aristotles, the Bacons and Newtons, the Homers and the Shakspeares. The very mauy-sidedness of their thoughts proves them to be detached parts of the great whole of Divine truth, and by whatever name we call the power of seeing these portions Reason, or Imagination, or a union of both,—Calhoun pos sessed it in a degree second to none iu our day, and surpassed by few in any age. In what is commonly called style, Mr. Calhoun's most remarkable traits were conciseness, and the almost entire absence of ornament. His delivery, as an orator, was distinguished by an earnestness, which was indeed a part of his whole nature. His flashing eye, and the repressed energy of his manner impressed all who heard him, in public or in private, with his deep, heartfelt conviction of the truth of what he said. This ardent sincerity amply supplied the place of all the graces of oratory,—(though his manly manner was not wanting in grace,)—and his eye and his gesture gave force to every word, and filled up the gaps in his sentences, so as to make that sound smooth and perfect, which now often reads roughly and almost ungramatically. Yet the forcible simplicity of the style charms the reader into forgetting such petty defects. He never used a figure for ornament, and rarely for illustration; the few exceptions are always remarkable for their fitness and chasteness. His taste in this regard was closely connected with the entire absence of any love for show in his character. No worthy of the elder Republic of Rome could have been more simple-hearted than Calhoun. Nothing in him was meant for the eye of the world ; his personal tastes and habits, even his dress and his chamber, were remarkable for their plain neatness. Mr. Webster has paid a just tribute to his wonderful powers of conversation, and their singular fascination for all, especially the young. The magic lay in the union of his great talents with the kindly simplicity of his heart. There was no effort to make an impression on his guests, no appearance of letting himself down to the level of their minds or information. On the contrary, he received all, the high and the humble, the old and the young, as equals. He would discourse, without reserve, of the great themes which always filled his mind, and talk of men and things with a truly surprising degree of freedom. He seemed incapable of supposing that this confidence would be abused, or that others, particularly the young, were less guileless than himself. Such was the childlike simplicity of a heart, that so loved truth and honor, that it could not believe. except upon positive evidence, that they were wanting in others. Akin to this was his great moral courage ; we have never known any one, who had so perfect a reliance on the power of truth, and the capa- city of the people to he convinced of it. We have sometimes thought he carried this feeling too far,—that be did not sufficiently remember that truth requires long,—often, very long,—periods of time for her operations. Hence Mr. Calhoun was always before his day, and he has more than once sacrificed the brightest prospects of the very highest political honors in defence of opinions, that he lived to see adopted by his opponents, and made the successful rallying-cry of a great party. He always rejected timid counsels, and used to say, "I will do my duty, no matter what may be the consequences." He never hesitated to avow his opinions, however unpopular, for, as he often said, he had never known the time when the American people could not be made to see the truth. Hence he was always hopeful, and this cheerful confidence in the power of reason attended him to the last; but a few weeks since, when speaking of the necessity and difficulty of placing a great question before the people in its true light, his touching, and unconscious exclamation was, " Ah ! what would -I give for one day of sound health to express my views !" Would to God it had been vouchsafed him !--We may judge from his last great speech what we have lost. It was the opinion of some of the oldest and wisest of his brother senators of either party, that this was the finest effort of his life. At least, it proved, what has often been predicted, that his mind, ever active, ever advancing from high to higher, would burn brightly to the last, and would know no darkening cloud on its path into the full effulgence of Heaven. His mortal frame was slowly wasted away by the increasing fires of the immortal spirit within. His vision grew clearer, till, as he lately told us, in his conviction-bearing way, " he could see far, Far into the future,—farther than ever before." His soul became purer and purer, and his powers mightier and mightier, until this world was too low, too narrow a sphere of action, and Mr. Calhoun was not a learned man, in the ordinary acceptation of the term, for he never had leisure for the details of scholarship. But he was an exceedingly well-informed man, and his various scientific and literary visiters always came away astonished at the knowledge he displayed of their respective departments, and the [sower and originality with which he conversed upon them. He gleaned much information from talking with others, and he distinguished, with surprising sagacity, the true and valuable from the spurious and erroneous. He was so quick, Ind his mind so active, that he thought more in t year than other men, even of equal talents, would in ten. Hence he could dispense with ong courses of studious reading, though few knew how much he had done even in this way. Perhaps we may learn more, when we receive the great work on Government, which he has bequeathed to mankind, where he has, doubtless, indulged his fondness for tracing back the ideas and institutions of the present, to their originals and analogues in the past. The constitution of the Roman and Hebrew States, of the Italian Republics, and of Anglo-Saxon society, all gave him new views of our own political organisation. He had been a close student of Aristotle's Politics, and he used to say that literature and philosophy had sustained no greater loss than the latter part of that work, in which were described the various politics that prevailed in Greece and her colonies. Such, we think, was also the judgment of Niebuhr, whom Mr. Calhoun greatly admired. Another book, of which he often spoke, was Machiavelli's History of Florence, and there were no writings of which he was fonder than Burke's. This may seem a little curious, when we contrast his own severe simplicity of manner with Burke's exuberance of splendid ornament; but both were alike remarkable for their suggestive style and creative genius. Mr. Calhoun's political career divides itself into two parts, the one before he was elected Vice-President, the other, after. The former belongs to our Revolutionary era; the warriors and statesmen of that day were still living, and active in finishing the great work of American Independence. None of the young generation brought more ardor and .ower to their aid than Calhoun,	s Mr. Madison, (we think) called him. The war of  , and Mr. Monroe's course in opposition to the Holy Alliance, were the necessary means of achieving an equal position for us in the world. The Revolution was not completed,—we were not truly Independent, until the latter period, when our flag rode triumphant on every sea, and our eagle soared unharmed across the continent. Peace was then needful for our work of subduing the wilderness, and to reap the rich harvest of the mauy discoveries in art, which have distinguished the pl'esent age. Peace, more than once powerfully sustained by Mr. Calhoun's efforts, reigned throughout Christendom; but in its bosom lurked Socialism, the most dangerous enemy civilisation has ever known. if the world was becoming more democratic, it had,_ at the same time, unfortunately preserved the centralised organisation, which despotism and plundering oligarchies had formerly established for their own benefit. Other causes everywhere promoted a tendency to centralisation. But the ultimate form of a centralised democracy is Socialism. The whole of the latter period of Mr. Calhoun's life was devoted to an unceasing war upon this foe. He detected and exposed it under all its disguises, and especially in the most atrocious crusade, it has ever undertaken, for the abolition of negro slavery throughout the world. He has never been more profound, or more successful, than in showing the identity of abolitionism and socialism, and that the same principles. which lead to the former, must end in overthrowing all the rights of property, and every relation that God has instituted between man and man. 'We have, in truth, fallen upon evil times; the waves of socialism and of abolitionism, are running mountain-high, and threaten to engulf alI that mankind has achieved in the long course of time. Where shall we rest our hopes of safety in such a storm ? What State in the civilised world is wise enough, and strong enough to weather its assault? Not Russia, which is but a camp of soldiers, ruling with the sword vast hordes of barbarians. Not Germany, or France, where all attempts at freedom end in anarchy,—where the Atheistic ravings of Proudhon, the insane socialism of Louis Blanc, or the profligate counsels of the debauchee Rollin are mistaken for the holy wisdom of Republicanism. Scarcely in debt-ridden England, and as little can we rest our hopes in our Northern States—the congenial soil of every species of fanaticism,— where mere Numbers reign supreme, and the rights of property become daily more insecure, and which, but for the conservative influence of the Federal Union, would quickly fall into hopeless anarchy. No ! our Southern States are the only ark of safety for civilisation. Its mighty guardian isgone: let us hastetfinideirio occupy the post, which he alone could singly fill; let us unfalteringly defend the ark, Which shall safely ride the waves of fire, till the deluge subsides, and the bow of promise adorn the retreating storm. But we must forbear, for our limits are nearly filled, and we have said nothing of what was, above all things, admirable in Mr. Calhoun,—his virtues ? Yet what can we say, that will be adequate ? or that will heighten the public sense of their beauty ? Shall we speak of that " heroic magnitude of mind," which looked to his own conscience alone for its reward, and would have scorned to buy a world by the sacrifice of one iota of his duty ? Shall we name that kindliness of feeling, which irresistibly attracted all within its sphere ; or that devotion to his country's good, which only ceased to throb with the last pulsation of his heart? Alas ! what boots it to recount his services; to tell how often he renounced the highest prize of public life, when almost in his grasp, because the service of truth required it ? What avails it to tell The people everywhere,—friends and foes,— ackno wledge his almost unparalleled virtues, and they confess their loss, as an eminent man has justly said, with a feeling, the like of which has never been witnessed, since the death of Washington.* He is gone,—this "watchman on the lonely tower,"—his guard is out, and who will take his place ? He is lost forever to his friends and his country—but we are not left to mourn in vain. His words remain for our guidance, and his virtues still live for our imitation. In his latter days, he used to say to the young men, who visited him, " A great struggle and a great work is before you ; I have begun it, but I am old; my time is short, and I cannot hope to do much more. You must prepare for it; you must work. Great difficulties will attend you, but rely upon truth and you will conquer." Let us remember his life-long devotion to his country's cause ; let us We feel the void he has left,—as a harp with out its master—as a host without its leader. e We see the dangers that encompass us on every side, but we hear, from the tomb, his call to action! We know that the truth is with us, and knowing this, like him, let us stand firm, trusting humbly, yet confidently in Gon AND """/t. RIGHT. "See a beautiful essay on the death and character of Calhoun, by the Hon. Richard Rush, of Philadelphia. " A New Spirit of the Age" consists of "" chapters, or articles, each containing critical and biographical sketches of one or more living British authors. Mr. Horne professes to be only " Editor ;" but we give him credit for several of the most spirited articles. The diversities of style in the volume confirm his averment, (which we at first thought a quiz, like those employed to veil the authorship of Gulliver's Travels, Humphrey Clinker, Old Mortality, and many other novels,) that it is the production of several different hands. Its title and character were suggested, the preface says, by Hazlitt's Spirit of the Age, published "" years ago. Except in Macaulay's Reviews, we do not know where to find in the same compass, half so much sound, acute, and felicitous criticism, as this New Spirit of the Age embodies. If it errs,.the error is always on the side of liberality. Indeed, so great is the predominance of praise, that most of the chapters are rather eulogies than judgments ; yet they are eulogies so discriminating, so well sustained by skilful analysis of merits, and so often seasonably checked by a dash of judicious blame, that their justice stands abundantly vindicated. Occasionally, the blame is covered in terms of right caustic banter ; as where, speaking of Bulwer's unsuccessful works, that have gone into forgetfulness, the critic says, " Then there have been patriotic songs and odes, in which there was a curious mixture of the roast•beef of Old England style, with an attempt at imaginative impulse and intensity of meaning, depending chiefly for high personifications and abstract qualities upon the use of capital letters ;" or, as where, in relation to a saying attributed to Sir Lytton, that he became an Editor " to show that a gentleman might occupy such a position," our author says that if Sir Lytton said so, "it belongs to that dandiacal' portion of him, which disagreeably interferes with one's confidence in his sincerity." About forty-three living writers are tabled for judgment, in the " New Spirit of the Age." And of these, only three are treated with a decided preponderance of censure—Thomas Ingoldsby, Theodore Hook, and Mrs. Trollope. The tremendous, yet gentlemanly severity, with which the author of the absurd and vicious "Ingoldsby Legends" and the coarse vulgarity of Mrs. Trollope are scourged, and the more tickling flagellation bestowed upon Hook's perpetual tuft-hunting and toad-eating, do our very hearts good. Dickens, Talfourd, Macaulay, Carlyle, Miss Mar- tinean, Mrs. Jameson, the Howitt's, and Sidney Smith, are among the writers criticised. The article on Dickens is the longest, and the analysis of him the most ample. Its praises are very high ; and, we think, always just. But his faults are entirely overlooked. Perhaps the oblivion which is already closing over his "American Notes," and demonstrating their ephemeral nature, justifies the critic for sparing the lash upon their ill nature, injustice, and shallowness of observation. But through some of Mr. D.'s more admired works, there runs a fault which ought to be mentioned in every properly balanced estimate of his character as an author. It is the sneer, sometimes only chafing, but sometimes vicious, with which he treats natural frailties of humanity, and even institutions pregnant with good to mankind. In the first half of his Pickwick Papers, before he had made up his mind whether to heroize Mr. Pickwick, or to whelm him in ridicule,— (Scamnumne faceret, an Priapum.) that gentleman's whole history is but one perpetual sneer at his most amiable weaknesses. All that is most dear to men, and all that can most bless them,—Love, Religion, Temperance, Woman,— are the subjects of this cold and withering, though covert sneer. It pervades, too, the Sketches of Boa. We do not mean to say that Mr. Stiggins, " The Shepherd," is not really a despicable character—a drunken, long-faced pretender to sanctity. We do not mean to say that " The Bricklaying Branch of the Ebenezer Total Abstinence Society" is not a ridiculous mockery of the means of guarding against intemperance. But what we censure Mr. Dickens for, in those creations, is the way in which he passes off those mockeries for the real things they mock. By sneers, (proverbially irrefutable,) he convinces that numerous class of deep thinkers, both rich and poor, whose whole studies are of works like his, who always take caricatures for portraits, and a witticism for an argument, that all Methodism, nay, all Religion, is a humbug as Mr. Stiggins is ; and that the absurd and oft fuddled " Brick-laying Branch" is a true type of that powerful and benign enginery, by which, in Ireland, Britain, and America, within twelve years, more money has been saved, more disease, vice and death have been prevented, more children been kept from beggary, and more female hearts from shame and anguish, than would balance the miseries-caused by any war of Napoleon. It is a saying of Doctor Johnson, that to indulge, habitually, the emotion of contempt, either proves a mind to be weak, or makes it so. How greatly then, must Mr. Dickens have contributed to weaken the minds of his numerous readers! For where is the author who calls their feeling of contempt into such frequent exercise "—contempt for many of his best characters ; Mr. Pickwick and his young fellow adventurer—even the Cheeruble brothers, and their faithful foreman, whose name we just now forget:—contempt for all charitable institutions—contempt for all persons—contempt for all lawyers, judges, and jurors—contempt for nine-tenths of womankind, and for ninety-nine-hundredths of mankind. One redeeming virtue of novels, among many hurtful effects, is their tendency to refine and elevate the character of their reader ; to inspire generous sentiments, and nurture within him a steadfast integrity and inflexible moral courage. In this tendency, the fun-making fictions of Boa are extremely deficient. The reader seldom rises from the perusal of his novels, as from that of Miss Edgeworth's, or Miss Sedgewick's, or of Scott's, or Madame D'Arblay's, with the consciousness of being a braver and a better man than before. Another fault of Mr. Dickens, though a much smaller one, is the palpable mannerism of his style. The florid and alliterative eloquence of Counsellor Philips in his early days, or the everlasting "hope I don't intrude" of Paul Pry, is not a tithe so tiresome, because not a tithe so long drawn out, as a certain pet phraseology traceable from beginning to end of Boz' lucubrations. One of the most frequent specimens is his way of styling a very mean person " gentleman" or " lady." It is a favorite stroke of humor with him, to call a dirty-faced, ragged, and thievish boy, " that young gentleman." For once, or even twice, this would have been very well : but it is repeated so often, that we are reminded of a lively child, who having made somebody laugh by an odd noise, or a grotesque movement, does it over and over again till the beholder is tired. Again,—Mr. D. has injured the English language, by a quantity of slang which his use of it has canonized. But enough of this. The article on " Lord Ashley and Dr. Southwood Smith" holds them tip illustriously to view, as two of the greatest living benefactors of England. Lord Ashley's efforts in the House of Commons, and Dr. Smith's labors with his pen, in behalf of the oppressed operatives in English factories and coal mines, have earned for them a glory of which we were wholly unaware. This chapter is better worth studying than any other in the hook we are reviewing. With singular felicity, it is placed immediately after the notice of Dickens; whose sensual, scornful, and anti-improvement spirit, are thus, to those minds which know him, placed in broad contrast with the active and enlightened benevolence of the young lord and the eminent physician. How we envy each of the two latter, his brilliant success in his particular walk, of talent and beneficence ! The peer, his having repeatedly enchained for hours, the attention of the most fastidious assembly on earth, by his simple statements and well suggested remedies ;—the doctor, his having won from the same assembly, and from a public equally fastidious, the most solid of all possible testimonials to his lucid, condensed, and powerful Reports on the same subjects ! And how far more desirable is the fame of either, than that of the upstart, who by throwing contempt on the benevolent institutions of his country,—on efforts to diffuse knowledge and suppress vice,—does all he can to prevent the rise of any, save himself, from the dregs whence he sprung !	M. Shelbyville, Illinois. Oct. "". kindness during an absence from home, you owe it to those who have entertained you, to inform them of your safe return, and to thank them for their hospitality and attention." " The responsibility of seconds in a duel, is very great ; and should be seriously regarded by all whom circumstances place in that unfortunate position. The seconds may always prevent a duel from taking effect; and they always ought. They should be astute in contriving forms of apology and explanation which may satisfy one party without cornpromitting the honor of the other. It is idle to say that the parties cannot be reconciled ; and that nothing will conquer their determination to meet. Out of Ireland no man has that recklessness of life, and out of hell, no man that malignity of feeling which will overcome the natural, earnest wish of every one to escape mortal risk, if it can be done consistently with reputation. Something may always be contrived, by which both may retire with flying colors." Passages like these may be greatly multiplied : and it is a matter for serious regret, that counsels adapted so well to humanize intercourse and make it pleasant, should have had their currency clogged by union with such false and mischievous princi- ples as are pointed out in the beginning of this notice. A book, good in the main, but bad in part, is like a brilliant genius, with one or two conspicuous vices. The goodness, the intellect, passes uncopied : the evil only impresses itself upon men's minds. " Decipit exemplar vitiis imitabile." It is the nature of imitators, to copy only, or at least chiefly, the defects of their models. Were we not right, in forbearing to present our friend with " The Canons of Good-Breeding ?" M. Vandalia, Illinois, Oct. "". at the head of this article—Beecher's LECTURES TO YOUNG MEN. We read it nearly through, in a day's journey by stage. It pleased us nearly, or quite as much as the sermon of its author. Few books are so eloquent, or so WISE. Let not the reader mistake the meaning of this word wise, as the children did in one of Jane Taylor's admirable dialogues. We intend not by it any of the altitudes of philosophy : we have not the remotest reference to Aristotle or Plato, Newton or Locke, Kant or Leibnitz ; nor to a long beard, with gray locks, environed by mouldy books, in an old-fashioned house with tall, narrow windows and mossy walls. We mean by WISDOM, simply using the best means to attain the best ends. And we call Mr. Beecher's book wise, because it employs a strain of eloquence hardly surpassable, to accomplish that best end,—human virtue and human happiness. The Lectures are seven. I. Industry and Idleness. II. Twelve Causes of Dishonesty. M. Six Warnings. IF. The Portrait Gallery. V. Gamblers and Gambling. VI. The Strange Woman. VII. Popular Amusement. To quote the good passages on these various topics, would be to transfer nearly the whole volume into our pages : we have not space for a tithe of those which we feel particularly desirous to copy. Among the " Twelve Causes of Dishonesty," the most prominent are Parental Example—the Teachings of Employers—Extravagance—Debt- Political Zeal—Executive Clemency—and Commercial Speculations. No newspaper but should forthwith copy, in successive numbers, the impressive warnings that our young working Preacher gives on these seven subjects. No merchant's clerk, journeyman mechanic, professional man, or young person of any description, but should study these warnings, and look to his ways. Hear what the author says of "Dishonesty learned from one's employers. The boy of honest parents and honestly bred, goes to a trade, or a store, where the employer practices legal frauds. The plain honesty of the boy excites roars of laughter amons, the better taught clerks. The master tells them that such blundering truthfulness must be pitied : the boy evidently has been neglected, and is not to be ridiculed for what he could not help. At first, it verily pains the youth's scruples and tinges his face, to frame a deliberate dishonesty,—finish, and polish it. His tongue stammers at a lie ; but the example of a rich master, the jeers and gibes of shop-mates, with gradual practice, cure all this. He becomes adroit in fleecing customers for his master's sake, and equally dextrous in fleecing his master for his own sake." At this time, when the thousands who have betted on the Presidential elections are mistaking their excitements about the dollars they have lost or won, for ebullitions of patriotism, and are perhaps on the point of becoming gamblers from having taken the first step, we invoke attention to Mr. Beecher's chart of the path by which a gambler goes, insensibly, from innocence to the depths of ruin. "A young man, proud of freedom, and anxious to exert his manhood, has tumbled his sober books and letters of counsel into a dark closet. He has learned various accomplishments ; to flirt, to boast, to swear, to fight, to drink. He has let every one of these chains be put around him, upon the solemn promise of Satan that he would take them off whenever he wished. Hearing of the artistic feats of eminent gamblers, he emulates them. So, he ponders the game : to-day he learns whist; to-morrow, brag; Saturday, bluff; and Sunday, poker. He teaches what he has learned to his shop-mates, and feels himself their master. As yet he has never played for stakes. It begins thus: Peeping into a bookstore, he watches till the sober customers go out ; then slips in, and with assumed boldness, ill-concealing his shame, he asks for cards, buys them, and hastens out. The first game is to pay for the cards. After the relish of playing for a stake, no game can satisfy them without a stake. A few nuts are staked ; then a bottle of wine ; an oyster-supper. At last they can venture a sixpence in actual money—just for the amusement of it. I need go no further—whoever wishes to do any thing with the lad, can do it now, If properly plied and gradually led, he will go to any length. Do you doubt it l Let us trace him a year or two further on. " With his father's blessing, and his mother's tears, the young man departs from home. He has received his patrimony, and embarks for life and independence. Upon his journey he rests at a city ; visits the school of morals ;' lingers in more suspicious places ; is seen by a sharper, and makes his acquaintance. The knave sits by him at dinner ; gives him the news of the place, and a world of advice ; cautions him against sharpers ; enquires if he has money, and charges him to keep it secret; offers to make with him the rounds of the town and secure him from imposition. At length, that he may see all, he is taken to a gambling-house, but, with apparent kindness, warned not to play. He stands by, to see the various fortunes of the game ; some, forever losing ; some, touch what number they will, gaining piles of gold. Looking is thirst where wine is free. A glass is taken ; another of a better kind ; next the best the landlord has, and two glasses of that. A change comes over the youth ; his exhilaration raises his courage and lulls his caution. Gambling seen, is a different thing from gambling painted by a pious father!—Just then his friend remarks, that one might easily double his money by a few ventures ; but that it is, perhaps, prudent not to risk. Only this was needed to fire his mind. What ! only prudence between me and gain l Then that shall not be long! He stakes ; he wins. Stakes again ; wins again. Glorious! I am the lucky man that is to break the bank. He stakes and wins again. His pulse races ; his face burns : his blood is up, and fear gone. He loses ; loses again ; loses all his winnings ; loses more. But fortune turns again ; he wins anew.	He has now lost all self-command. Gains excite him; and losses ex- NEW YEAR'S GREETINGS. It is not, most generous patrons, because " custom calls me to't" that we tender you the greeting of " a happy New Year !" We owe you far more than a mere compliance with custom, and truly do we desire to pay it ; and whilst the radiance of anticipated joys is shining around your paths, we would blend with it the heart-tinted hues of our sincere gratitude. In times that have tried men's liberality and made such inroads upon the interests of Literature, you have stood by the Messenger. When, upon the death of its founder, it was administered upon like any mere chattel in law ; when all its contributors had forsaken it, and its conductor was forced to fill its pages with matter from works that had been circulated as widely as itself, all over the Country, and many lukewarm supporters withdrew, your friendship failed not. When a new Editor, unknown and inexperienced, assumed its management in this depressed condition, you continued firm and generous, taking us upon trial, and encouraging us by your favor. Many of you have not only enlisted in its support in the hour of its greatest depression, but have done so because it had passed into our hands. Under such most flattering circumstances, how recreant would we be to every sentiment that could fit us for the position we occupy, did not the heart dictate the expression of thanks which we now offer you. We sigh for gifts which, alas! we do not possess, to enable us to make a suitable acknowledgment for the favors that have been shown us. In lieu of the grace of compliment and the inspiration of Genius, we present you the sincerity of truth. Who can have written the little book called " CONQUEST AND SELF-CONQUEST l"* I met with it lately in a Richmond bookstore ; and read it with a delight that no book of its class has inspired me with, since Sandford and Merton, The Parents' Assistant, Popular Tales, and the best of Miss Sedgwick's juvenile narratives. Amid the numberless and worthless tomes of trash that have in recent times superseded those glories of English Literature just named, it is meat and drink to one who relishes an exquisite blending of the sweet with the useful, to find such a treat as this " Conquest and Self-Conquest." It is a story of an. American boy, who, after an early education at home, under the eye of a judiciously fond mother, went, at "" years of age, to a grammar-school : fought, was beaten,--grew stronger in body and principles,—won the heart of his adversary,—entered the Navy,—and. there in a career of virtue and honor, proved how unnecessary vice or ferocity is, to a high place among the sons of maritime glory. Except Miss Edgworth and the author of Sandford and Merton, I do not know a writer who has so happily portrayed true heroism. I pray you, tell me who she is i A woman, certainly ; as well from the delicacy of some turns and touches, impracticable to a man, as from one or two slight incoherences, which his more mathematical nature would have avoided. Thus, in September or October,  , a certain adventure occurs (p. "") : eighteen months afterwards, is another incident : and then (p. """) the succeeding March is in  , not long before our last war!!— At least one other inaccuracy might be found, by a person who chooses to hunt out a bit of chaff in a bushel of wheat. Whoever does it will surely deserve, like him of old, to be rewarded with the chaff for his pains. The book seems in the main, above the powers of my favorite, Miss Sedg,wick : yet it contains a vulgarism to which I grieve to say she is addicted—the transitive verb to leave, used without expressing its object : thus, (p. "") "readiness to leave whenever," &c. Fie, fie, Mrs. Nameless! Does it not excite your ire, Mr. Messenger, to see the glorious works I have mentioned, shoved aside or overlaid by the trash I alluded to l It excites mine. How wroth it makes me, to enter a bookstore, and on asking for Sandford and Merton, the Parents' Assistant, Popular Tales, or any other of the inimitable Miss Edgworth's productions, or those of Miss Sedgwick, or Evenings at Home, or Sargeant's Temperance Tales,—to be told they are not there, and to have Peter Parley, or Mary Howitt, or Sir Lytton Bulwer, or a dozen besides, too new and poor to be named, pushed in my face! I always long to serve such a bookseller as Alcibiades is reported by Plutarch once to have served a schoolmaster in Athens. You remember Alcibiades—young, handsome, rich and spoiled, so that he could take strange liberties with every body. He entered a school one day, and asked the teacher for Homer's works. " I have them not," said the pedagogue. " Have n't got Homer !" replied Alcibiades : "then take that !"—and gave him a rousing box o' the ear, before all his scholars. I am very much inclined to treat parents in the same way, who confess that they are without the same books. Considering the incredible multitude of books, and other kinds of reading, that are hourly crowding into the world, the great aim of all except first rate geniuses should be, methinks, to direct the public mind continually to the acknowledged standards of excellence, and divert public favor from inferior works. The classics of our language should live perpetually in the critic's page ; and his stiletto* should be busy in exterminating the insect swarms, which every day brings forth, and which a day, thank Heaven! for the most part consigns to oblivion—and so saves him the trouble. And if our periodicals would copy ten times what they do, front the great Masters, and exclude nine-tenths of the so-called " original" matter they publish,—at least one reader would be very much obliged to them. Dickens. His new assault upon our country, in the January number of the Foreign Quarterly Review,-"- is the most venomously spiteful that he has made. Yet it has a pungency that tickles,—a frequent happiness of expression that strikes and pleases,—amid all the injustice, and the still greater malignity in which it abounds. Nor is it always unjust. Though, upon the subject of slavery, and its incidents, Mr. Dickens exaggerates and falsifies more than Mrs. Troliope, or any travelling book-Wright since, and approaches the brutal injustice of Parkinson, Fidler, and the other early tourists who slandered us,—yet, to much that he says on other topics, our plea ought to be "guilty." Boastfulness about our country,—excessive thirst for money,—a consequent neglect of many useful "",""" white people above "" years of age, who-cannot read or write,—to know that England has two millions. It is wiser to compare her with the ",""" of Massachusetts, or the "",""" of New York, or the "",""" of Pennsylvania : the first having as many, the second thrice, and the third twice as many white inhabitants as Virginia has. A word more of Mr. Dickens' Article. I am glad of his severity (if it were less ill-natured) towards the poetasters, whom I have long ranked among the country's nuisances. Who can dissent from the justice of his animadversions upon the Epic yclept "Washington,"---the common-place tameness of Pierpont,—the " feeble verbosity" of "the American Hemans,"—and the utter inanity of ninety-nine hundredths of those newspaper and magazine rhymesters,—clerks, foredoomed their father's souls to cross, and penning stanzas when they should engross l Rhymesters, to whom Oblivion has a fair, indefeasible claim ; and of whom Mr. Griswold vainly endeavors to defraud her, in his late collection of their indiscretions.*—But towards Hail Columbia and the Star-Spangled Banner,—towards Drake's American Flag, and Trumbull's McFingal, Mr. Dickens has not been just, as any jury of sensible Englishmen could easily be satisfied by an examination of them. To six American Poets, he has dealt out a measure of praise with which even themselves would probably be satisfied : Alfred B. Street, Mrs. Brooks of Louisville (" Maria Del Occidente"), Ralph Waldo Emerson, Halleck, Bryant, and Longfellow. " Halleck," he says, " is, the author of a noble lyric, Marco Bozzaris.' Had he written nothing more, he must have earned a high popularity ; but he has written much more, equally distinguished by a refined taste and cultivated judgment."—" We are too much pressed for space to afford room for the whole of this poem, and are unwilling to injure its effect by an isolated passage. The chrysolite must not be broken."—I wish his praises even of the three whom he most admires, had not been alloyed by some qualifications that savor of the ill-nature and illiberality that pervade nearly the whole " Article." Mr. Dickens ends with a paragraph powerfully true. Though I fear its effect in America will be marred by its coming from him, and by its repulsive context, yet quote it I must, for the sake of its truth. How impressively it reinforces the (entirely too long) essays of Mr. Simms, in your January and March numbers ! things which tend not only to comfort, but to virtue, and even to Freedom—lawless violence, under the decrees of that vile usurper, Judge Lynch—and perhaps above all, the foulness of our newspaper press,—are sins for which Mr. Dickens does not give us one lash amiss. Truth never outwent fiction farther, than two village newspapers in Tennessee outgo Boz's Eatanswill Gazette and Eatanswill Independent, in violence and scurrility. And the daily observation of us all,—even daily remarks now current among us,—show that our Newspaper Press generally is, and that we feel it to be, worse than Dickens' worst representations of it. It was with difficulty, three days ago, that I could get a gentleman of very high standing for intelligence and honor, (no dyspeptic, either, nor otherwise morbidly inclined,) to except the National Intelligencer, the New York Evening Post, the Boston Courier, and one or two others, from the general censure for unfairness, vulgarity and bitterness. We have not taken the criticisms of foreigners (including Boz) upon our manners and country, as we ought to have done. We have been too thinskinned—too resentful. The uses of censure, like those of Adversity, are sweet, if rightly taken. " Though like a toad, ugly and venomous," it "wears yet a precious jewel in its head," to such as know how to find that jewel. If, instead of bristling up at those ill-natured criticisms, we had carefully examined ourselves to see how far they were, just, and to mend our ways accordingly, it would have been wiser. Pictures that others draw of us, are in fact the very fulfilment of Burns' prayer which is in every body's mouth :— By flying into a passion at such pictures, we become unable to see what truth they contain ; and lose all the benefit of having the poet's prayer granted. By-the-by, if our foreign monitors wish us to profit by their schoolings, they ought to infuse more kindness into them. Advice, to man, woman or child, is sure to be rendered powerless by spite or arrogance in the giver !—Suppose Mr. Dickens in his Notes for General Circulation, and in his late Review, had substituted kindness, and that good-humored banter in which he excels, for the snarling tone in which he utters his well deserved blame of our filthy spitting habit—of our fast eating—and our other peccadilloes l—why, he would have done more for our amendment than all our own lecturers and satirists combined ; and at the same time have doubled his popularity in America, instead of annihilating it. I do not see what we gain, or that we at all refute the foreign calumniators, by shewing their own countries to be worse than ours. It would poorly mitigate the evil to Virginia, of having * The Poets and Poetry of America. By Rufus W Griswold. native talent. Literature is, consequently, the least tempting of all conceivable pursuits ; and men must float with the stream, and live as they can with the society in which they have been educated. Even were the moral materials by which this vast deposit of human dregs is supplied, other than they are—purer, wiser and more refined,—still America could not originate or support a literature of her own, so long as English productions can be imported free of cost, and circulated through the Union at a cheaper rate than the best productions of the country. The remedy for this is obvious, and its necessity has long been felt on both sides of the water,—a law for the protection of International Copyright. Such a law would be valuable to us, sithply in a commercial point of view—but to America its advantages would be of incalculably greater importance. It would lay the foundation of a comprehensive intellectual movement which never can be accomplished without its help ; and by which alone, she can ever hope to consolidate and dignify her institutions. We trust the day is not far distant when the unanimous demand of the enlightened of both countries will achieve a consummation so devoutly to be wished for." MY SCHOOLMASTER ; OR, BLACKSTONE MADE EASY. Ten years of my life had rolled away, when, one beautiful morning, in the month of September, I was informed by my aunt that she intended to send me that day to the only schoolmaster in the neighborhood, who lived about four miles from our residence, and that I must at once prepare myself to go. Of the gentleman who kept the school, I knew nothing, except that from one or two of my acquaintances I had heard of his rigor in exacting discipline, and had once, at the village church, met with an opportunity of seeing his person. Before, however, I was many months older, I had acquired that intimate acquaintance with all his ways and actions, both past and present, which a pupil only attains of his pedagogue, and this much about him I am ready to verify. He had been a lawyer in his youth, that is, like hundreds of young men of that and the present day, he had studied law with the intention of following the practice ; but on becoming more fully acquainted with it, and finding that in this science appalling difficulties must be surmounted to obtain success, he prudently resolved to abandon it, for the more romantic but calumniated occupation of school keeping. I say calumniated, because this profession is abused and considered somewhat degrading, when a second thought would convince any one of its nobleness and elevation. I do not mean to go into an eulogy upon schoolmasters, but merely to lament en passant, that their true value is so little considered and their influence over the rising generation so little appreciated. It will be any purpose now to mention one of the peculiarities which characterized his system of instruction, and exercised a great influence over me. My old schoolmaster, as I have said, had been a lawyer, and the study of that science had produced upon his mind the singular conviction, that law should apply to all bodies or societies on a small scale, as well as to nations ; and the science of law, such as detailed by the learned Blackstone, he had discovered to be particularly applicable to his old- field school. At this period of my life, I con to my proficiency in the studies which are usually sidered study to be decidedly a humbug—a species taught, and on which I had bestowed some little of durance vile which my parents had undergone attention. I accordingly caused the pictorial illusbefore me, (at least they said so,) and which, by a trations of Europe, Asia and Africa to pass in incontinuance of the same custom, was now to be stant review before my mind, not forgetting Lindendured by me. I need, therefore, scarcely say ley Murray's definition of grammar, and scanning that the thermometer of my natural love and af particularly the most complex portions of the fection towards the human species fell considerably, multiplication table. Judge of my surprise and diswhen the scale came to be applied to that portion gust, when, instead of hearing a question pertinent of the race denominated schoolmasters. But, as to some of these, I was asked, in a stentorian I had never been to a schoolmaster, though I had voice—" What is law?" Now, although like every graduated under a schoolmistress, and having fre body else in the world, I had heard something about quently heard my playmates relate, with a shud the law and its vast powers, still I had serious der, some of his horrible fla,gellations and incar misgivings as to my individual capacity to give a cerations, I naturally viewed this potent personage correct definition of the aforesaid science. I with a religious awe—a holy horror—which was could see that the boys near me, compassionating much increased by the imperturbable gravity of his my situation, were trying to tell me, and the whisappearance. It is no wonder, therefore, that I felt pered word—" rulafaction"—fell distinctly on my a little nervous at the arrival of the momentous ear ; but, as I was profoundly ignorant of the day on which I was to be inducted into this temple meaning of any such word, I deemed it prudent to of Minerva ; a temple which, as I afterwards found, disregard it, and was fain to tell him I did not know. had ample claims to be dedicated to many other " Well, sir," was the immediate reply. " the law of the gods and goddesses.	is a rule of action prescribed by the supreme power A mysterious note, sealed and given me by my in a state, commanding what is right, and prohibiaunt, was the only passport that accompanied me ting what is wrong." This was delivered with down the long lane to the schoolhouse, which ap the volubility of frequent repetition, and was impeared to me to be indeed the broad road leading mediately followed by these practical applicationsto destruction. I knocked timidly at the door—it " Well, sir, I am the supreme power ; this school was opened, and I went in. But, alas ! as soon as is the state, and this rule of action," exhibiting a I entered, I was horror-struck—my direst anticipa stout, flexible ferule, " is?"—"the law," answered tions were in a moment realized, and I beheld a I with confidence. " Yes sir, right, very right ; boy much older than myself writhing in the arms this is the law, and this is the way it acts"—whackof the schoolmaster, and undergoing the severest ing it down emphatically upon the bench. All penalties of the law; or, as the boys called it, this was performed with a seriousness and gravity " satisfying the execution." The boys, taking ad that would have put a judge to the blush, and was vantage of the din, were giggling and laughing; immediately followed in the same strain by an inthrowing playthings across the room in exchange terrogatory, the answer of which I fondly flattered for an apple; leaping over and tripping up one myself admitted of no doubt or cavil—" What is another, and luxuriating in all imaginable excesses. the greatest book that ever was written?" I anAs for me, my head became dizzy—my vision swered with promptness, but with a reverence my failed, and I attempted to rush into the open air, aunt had impressed upon me—" the Bible." This and be free once more ; but the heavy door had staggered him, for he could neither deny nor gainswung to, and the elevated latch baffled all my say it, but he plainly desired an answer like that feeble efforts to upraise it. Yes—I was a prisoner. to his first question—expressive of total ignorance. Just at this moment, the stunning noise ceased. He was, therefore, compelled to modify his quesIts encouraging effect upon me was electrical. I tion, and asked me with more harshness of manlooked round and beheld every one in his seat per ner, "What is the next greatest book in the fectly still. The storm had ceased—the roaring world?" This threw me again upon my haunches; stream had again lapsed into the murmuring brook, but of all the books I had ever read, the claims of and nothing was heard, save a monotonous and Parley's Tales of Africa, and Mother Goose's continual hum that fell upon my ear like the dis Melodies shone preeminently above all the rest. tant moan of the spinning-wheel. I was startled While, therefore, I was cautiously weighing these from the stupor in which I had been thrown, by two, and the Lion Hunt of Parley and Peter Piper the voice of the schoolmaster, who had just per of the melodies were striving to work the ascenceived me, and was summoning me to place my dancy, I was startled by a direction, the purport of self within a convenient distance of his august which was, that if I did not know I had better personage ; or, in his language, to be initiated at say so. I accordingly banished all thoughts of the bar of the court. I walked up without hesita these delightful books and again plead total ignotion, knowing that my aunt had made all arrange rance. An answer, as before, was of course exments with him, and expecting a few inquiries as pected ; but it was too important to he trusted to ray a"C "MOSLer j or, DiaCKSIOne .O"aae r.asy. words only, without more tangible evidence of what cases, the general issue or a denial of the charge, the greatest book was. A large stone was there after which the master or the chancellor, as he had fore produced, and I was asked what it was, and now became, decided the case according to the what was its color. I answered readily. "Yes, evidence—that is, in the manner that best suited sir," said he, "stone-black, or black-stone; recollect his inclination. If it went against the defendant, that Blackstone is the greatest book that ever was he was to make satisfaction, and receive a certain written." " Now, sir," added he, "you know what number of stripes ; if against the plaintiff, the law law is; take care that you do not incur any of its (being the said ferule) inflicted costs, which was penalties, for the law is no respecter of persons, five stripes in all cases. and every wrong hath its appropriate remedy."	All these things excited my curiosity to the Being thus edified and indoctrinated into the utmost, and eagerly did I await the approaching definition of law, a science with which I certainly day to witness the called court and its operations. had not expected to have any connexion, before I found that this singular phenomenon a schoolentering the schoolhouse, I was led to my seat, master had introduced into his school, was what I and, after handing me a book, and pointing out o. afterwards discovered to be the regular practice of lesson, the schoolmaster left me to take up some the courts; having divided the causes into criminal other business. On taking my seat, and reflecting and civil—and instituted two courts—the common on what had passed, I began to think my school law and the chancery or equity, of which he was master the strangest being in existence. I, how respectively both judge and chancellor. He conever, said nothing about his mode of treatment or trived, however, to bring most of the cases under examination, concluding that was the proper and chancery jurisdiction, whether in violation of actual customary way of managing matters, and charita custom or not, because in that court he was saved bly imputing my want of apprehension to my own the trouble of a jury, and it would have been too inexperience. I had hardly begun to apply myself great a violation of all precedent to have proceeded steadily to my book, before I had an opportunity at common law without the intervention of a jury. of witnessing a practical operation of some of this Besides, in chancery, he delivered his decrees scholastic law. It appeared, that one of the boys without any reserve ; for he liked a summary prohad taken and appropriated to his own use the cess, and after the decree was pronounced, would grammar of another, for which, or rather for jus issue execution, and serve and execute it himself, tice, he now applied to the schoolmaster. "Yes," which invariably ended in his chastising somebody. he replied, after the boy had stated the case, "an He, therefore, combined in his own person the action of trover and conversion will lie—here is chancellor, judge, jury, sheriff, and executioner, the capias ad respondendum, a writ which lies and " satisfying the execution" seemed always to to compel an appearance at the beginning of a give him the greatest pleasure; a process, for which suit—serve it on him to appear to-morrow at we all, jointly and severally, entertained the most the called court—justitia fiat, mat calum." The thorough and unmitigated disgust. boy seemed to understand the process perfectly, This singular man was remarkably tall, being handed the slip of paper, which was the writ, to nearly seven feet in height,—he always wore a suit the offender, and returned to his seat. The case of rusty black,—possessed an eye as cold and was docketed, and thus ended the matter for the piercing as a rattlesnake's—and his arms, which present. But to me it was all a mystery, and I were of surpassing length, played about horizonventured to ask the one next to me the meaning of tally in their sockets, like the feelers of a polypus. this seemingly farcical operation. My companion He was never known to smile, and his features gave me a look, expressive at once of surprise possessed a fixedness and rigidity which was the and contempt for my ignorance, but went on to same under all situations and circumstances. The inform me that Humphrey Brown had brought an imaginary circle, described by the end of his midaction of trover and conversion against Robert dle finger during a revolution of his arm, he deHitesby, (for having found and converted to his nominated the bar of the common law court, and own use,) and that one or the other would certainly any person standing within that line was said to be receive a whipping to-morrow. I found out after at the bar of the court. In one corner of the room, wards that the mode of conducting it was this : a a space about four feet square, was partitioned off writ was issued, summoning the offender or defen by a number of bars, forming a lattice work, which dant to appear at the next court, and answer the he used to tell each new scholar was the place for charge. If he failed to come, judgment at once holding his court of chancery—so called, he would went against him by default, and he was inevitably add, from cancelli—bars, placed crosswise to keep flogged, unless some excellent reason was given off the crowd, and not as Lord Coke saith from for his absence. if he did come, the declaration cancellaritts—the lord chancellor. Against the was generally made out fiction legis, in imagina wall, in a conspicuous part of the room, hung a tion, and the cause brought for trial, when the de code of crimes with their respective punishments fendant pleaded anything be chose ; but, in most annexed, varying in degree according to the hein- ousness of the offence, of which, to his credit be it said, the crime of telling a lie, or perjury, as it was styled, was deemed the most unpardonable ; insomuch, that the punishment adjudged proper, and placed opposite on the list, was the dreadful word—" outlawry ;" which, being interpreted, meant everlasting and eternal expulsion from the school. But the punishments varied with the character of the offences—some of which were standing on one foot and holding up the other—being compressed against the wall with your face towards it—and wearing a ball and chain. This code he occasionally revised, being himself the law-giver and supreme power, and possessing, as he frequently told us, the royal prerogative of being incapable of committing any wrong. The next day, being the day for the called court, I watched with great interest, looking anxiously for this monster to appear ; for, as to what sort of a thing this court might be, my ideas were exceedingly indefinite, and I scarcely knew whether to consider it as something corporeal or incorporeal. Every thing passed off in regular order—that is, the lessons were prepared and recited as in other schools—the play time came and ended, and my nervousness at the mention of the court began gradually to wear off. I began to suspect that it was all a joke at last ; but then the seriousness with which the boys bad spoken of it during playtime, and the total absence of anything like jest about the countenance of the pedagogue, banished the thought from my mind. The day wore on, and the evening sun was fast verging towards the horizon—the cattle without were slowly wending their way homeward—and the soothing silence which prevailed was only occasionally broken by the distant bark of the watch-dog, as he roused himself to eater on his nightly vigils. All around bespoke peace and quiet. I was sitting with my back to the school, charmed with the scene, and in the revery dreaming of home and happiness, when suddenly the school, in which silence had reigned, gave forth a slight rustle—like the woods momentarily fanned by the passing breeze. The previous quiet had been such that this disturbed me ; and, on looking around, I immediately perceived the teacher slowly elevating himself to his full height, when, like the statue of Memnon, he immediately gave forth these remarkable sounds: " Oyez—oyez—oyez—silence is commanded on the pain of imprisonment, whilst the honorable judge of this court is sitting—all persons having busi- nthis court o ndraw tthe near, and if y " ta a plea to enter, or a suit to prosecute, let them come forth, and they shall be heard—God save the supreme power in the state." "First ease on the docket," he continued, " supreme power against Sommerville—assault and battery—actionnei brought by supreme power. Josiah Thundercut," for that was his name, " counsel for the plaintiff—let the parties appear at the bar of the court ;" but the parties were already there, having long ago learnt by bitter experience the penalties of a nonappearance. Now, this case had arisen in the following manner. During the play-time of some preceding day a difficulty had arisen between two boys by the names of Hill and Sommerville, which, agreeably to the ninth article of the juvenile code of honor, had been settled by a regular fisticuff. Unfortunately, the master had witnessed it, and thereby rendered all hope of evasion or escape utterly impossible. In other schools, such as I afterwards attended, immediate chastisement would have been inflicted on the offender, and the matter dropped; but here it was different : a considerable time (the law's delay) had to elapse before any notice could be taken of it, and then, in cold blood, after the subject had been nearly forgotten, the offender was to receive punishment ; or, as the master termed it, Sommerville, the defendant, having incurred the penalties, was now to receive the pains of the law—that memorable and justly despised ferule, which, as he told us over and over again, not only commanded what was right, but prohibited what was wrong. Such being the state of affairs, he proceeded to state, that this was "a case of battery which, according to the great Blackstone, is the unlawful beating of another, and is liable to two actions, one at the suit of the supreme power, the other at the suit of the party injured. The latter having failed to prosecute, the former receives damages"—whereupon having delivered all this in a rapid, monotonous tone, similar to that in which he had pronounced the opening benediction of the court, judgment was forthwith entered up—the execution issued and satisfied, and the parties discharged from custody—all of which was done in the short space of about three minutes. Many other actions were heard and dispatched, occupying an incredibly small degree of time; but these had arisen from circumstances which transpired before I had become a scholar, and I felt the most interest in the trover and conversion case, which had been docketed the day before, and was about to be tried. In this case, the parties were summoned as before, and the plaintiff informed by the teacher (for probably the hundredth time,) that here an action, either of detinue or trover, would lie ; the first to recover the identical thing lost or detained ; the second to recover its equivalent in damages, together with the costs—adding, interrogatively, that it was optional with him to have either action he preferred. To this the plaintiff replied, that an " accord," had taken place, and the book been delivered—" whereby," said the judge, " judgment goes against you, Hitesby, for the costs only. So saying, he forthwith inflicted the five stripes upon the defendant, and the parties were discharged. Thus he proceeded through all the cases on the docket, which gave rise, according to their different natures, to all kinds of actions, in all of which the offence had only to be made out and proved, and then the punishment assigned by the code was forthwith inflicted. Thus were cases continually arising, which were always docketed for the next court, or for the suc- ceeding one, if the parties for any good cause were then absent. The details of these courts were similar to that just described, except that the suits and corresponding actions constantly varied through nuisance, trespass, waste, &c., insomuch that the part of Blackstone relating to actions, was in a short period completely gone through with. I shall, therefore, report one more case only, which was the last of note that occurred before I left the school. Mr. Thundercut had a favorite cat which he usually kept near his person, and who, recipro- cating the attachment, established her lodgings at his feet, having acquired, by long practice, a happy dexterity in maintaining her position, and yet avoiding the eccentric and dangerous evolutions to which his pedal extremities seemed sometimes to be involuntarily subjected. Now, although we had never been told so, each of us had an innate presentiment, that, under existing circumstances, to harm that cat would be productive of consequences of a serious, and perhaps melancholy nature. Puss, therefore, enjoyed a religious exemption from all the thousand ills that other cats fall heir to, except that once a new and mischievous pupil cropped her ears ; this, however, was soon passed over, the master being unable, even by the most liberal construction of Blackstone, to make it out a case of" mayhem." But one day an unlucky stone, thrown by a large and strong boy, shattered puss' head to atoms ; thus, at a blow, scattering to the four winds the nine lives with which the feline tribe are said to he endowed. Play-time ended. The bell rang, and all were in their places except the cat and the offender. On missing them, and learning the facts of the case, the master forthwith went into the yard, and returned with the mutilated body of his beloved cat. Sorrow was not depicted on his countenance :—regret did not agitate a muscle, but slowly raising the animal by the tail and viewing it attentively for some time, he at last exclaimed" Felony ! by all the sages of the law." This crime, he told us, if accidentally committed, was a case of cat-slaughter, and if purposely, absolute murder. He decided that it was a crime of such magnitude that it ought to be tried by a jury, and on the next day we saw entered on the penal code" for killing a cat—two hundred and fifty stripes and three days incarceration." The offender, however, never returned, and thus the demands of the law went for once unsatisfied. This will serve as a specimen of the course of discipline pursued by this original pedagogue, and it may, at the first glance, seem to have been par- ticularly severe, but it was not so. All you had to do was to bring no false actions, and take care that no true ones were brought against you : for, in the first case, you suffered costs, and in the last you satisfied the execution. The most beneficial result was the suppression of all kinds of crime, the dread of the formal process of the courts, and the certainty of punishment being sufficient to deter the most hardy. Certain it is, that I have never since met with a schoolmaster who pursued this novel plan of discipline. I am to offer you, and this large assembly, some thoughts upon EDUCATION, as a means of preserving the Republican Institutions of our country. The sentiment of the Roman Senate, who, upon their general's return with the shattered remains of a great army from an almost annihilating defeat, thanked and applauded him for not despairing of the Republic, has, in later times, been moulded into an apothegm of political morality; and few sayings, of equal dignity, are now more hackneyed, than that "A good citizen will never despair of the commonwealth." I shall hope to escape the anathema, and the charge of disloyalty to our popular institutions, implied in the terms of this apothegm, if I doubt, somewhat, its unqualified truth ; when you consider how frequently omens of ruin, overclouding the sky of our country, have constrained the most unquestionable republican patriot's heart to quiver with alarm, if not to sink in despair. When a factious minority, too strong to be punished as traitors, treasonably refuse to rally under their country's flag, in defence of her rights and in obedience to her laws; when a factious majority, by partial legislation, pervert the government to the ends of self-aggrandizement or tyranny; when mobs dethrone justice, by assuming to be her ministers, and rush madly to the destruction of property or of life ; when artful demagogues, playing upon the credulity or the bad passions of a confiding multitude, sway them to measures the most adverse to the public good ; or when a popular chief (though he were a Washington) contrives so far to plant his will in the place of law and of policy, that the people approve or condemn both measures and men, mainly if not solely, by his judgment or caprice ; and when all history shews these identical causes (the offspring of ignorance and vice) to have overthrown every proud republic of former times ;—then, surely, a Marcus Brutus or an Algernon Sidney,—the man whose heart is the most irrevocably sworn to liberty, and whose life, if required, would be a willing sacrifice upon her altars—must find the most gloomy forebodings often haunting his thoughts, and darkening his hopes.v Indeed, at the best, it is no trivial task, to conduct the affairs of a great people. Even in the tiny republics of antiquity, some twenty of which were crowded into a space less than two-thirds of Virginia,—government was no such simple machine, as some fond enthusiasts would have us believe it might be. The only very simple form of government, is despotism. There, every question of policy, every complicated problem of state economy, every knotty dispute respecting the rights or interests of individuals or of provinces, is at once solved by the intelligible and irreversible sic solo of a Nicholas or a Mohammed. But in republics, there are passions to soothe; clashing interests to reconcile; jarring opinions to mould into one result, for the general weal. To effect this, requires extensive and accurate knowledge, supported by all the powers of reasoning and persuasion, in discussing not only sijstems of measures, but their minutest details, year after year, before successive councils, in successive generations: and supposing the machinery of Legislative, Executive, and Judiciary to be so simple or so happily adjusted, that an idiot might propel it, and a school-lad with the first four rules of arithmetic—or even " a negro boy with his knife and tally stick"*—might regulate its movements and record their results ; still, those other objects demand alt the comprehension and energies of no contracted or feeble mind. Nor are these qualities needful only to the actual administrators of the government. Its proprietors, the people, must look both vigilantly and intelligently to its administration : for so liable is power to continual abuse ; so perpetually is it tending to steal from them to their steward or their agent ; that if they either want the requisite sagacity to judge of his acts, or substitute a blind confidence in him for that wise distrust, which all experience proves indispensable to the preservation of power in the people, it will soon be their power no longer. A tame surrender of it to him is inevitable, unless they comprehend the subjects of his action well enough to judge the character of his acts : unless they know something of that vast and diversified field of policy, of duty, and of right, in which they have set him to labor. Yes—in its least perplexed form, on its most diminutive scale, the task of self-government is a perilously difficult one ; difficult, in proportion to its nobleness calling for the highest attributes of the human character. What, then, must it be, in a system so complex as ours? Two sets of public functionaries, to appoint and superintend : two sets of machinery to watch, and keep in order: each of them not only complicated within itself, but constantly tending to clash with the other. Viewing the State government alone, how many fearful dissensions have arisen, as to the extent of its powers, and the propriety of its acts! Turning then to the Federal government, how much more awful and numerous controversies, respecting both the constitutionality and expediency of its measures, have, within half a century, convulsed the whole Union ! No less than three conjunctures within that time, threatening us with disunion and civil war ; not to mention the troubles of the elder Adams' administration, the conspiracy of Burr, the Missouri dispute, or the cloud (now, I trust, about to disperse) which has just been lowering in our northern sky. To the complexity of our two governments, separately considered, add the delicate problems daily springing from their relations with one another, and from the mutual relations of the twenty-four states—disputes concerning territory ; claims urged by citizens of one, against another state; or wrongs done to some states, by citizens and residents of others—all these, and innumerable other questions, involving each innumerable ramifications, continually starting up to try the wisdom and temper, if not to mar the peace, of our country ;—and say, if there are words forcible and emphatic enough to express the need, that the POPULAR WILL, which supremely controls this labyrinthine complication of difficulties, should be enlightened by knowledge, tempered by kindness, and ruled by justice ? Gentlemen, when such dangers hedge our political ly relied upon, to save her from the dangers that hem edifice ; when we recollect the storms which have al- ready burst upon it, and that, although it has survived them, we have no guarantee for its withstanding even
