 in much trouble. That buoyant mind which the vicissitudes of a changing and precarious profession could not sadden or subdue, proved itself vulnerable to the weapons of ridicule. "And so, my young deserter, you have come at last. Here have I been grieving myself to death at the malice of Mc—, and you have felt no sympathy in my trouble, or have been too indolent or indifferent to give me one word of comfort. Shame on you! Is this your friendship ?" I made my excuses with the best grace I could assume, and assured her I had just learned the cause of her uneasiness. She readily believed me, for she was too sincere herself to doubt the sincerity of others. "I do not know," said she, "but my annoyance at this affair may seem overstrained. To those who call themselves philosophers, it may appear childish in me to grieve at such an attempt to render me ridiculous. But I am a mere woman, and no philosopher ; besides, my case is a peculiar one. On the stage we have so often, I might say so habitually, to overstep what by other women are considered the bounds of modesty, that she who preserves the essential principle of that great charm of the sex, is most jealous in keeping her claim to it inviolate. The world gives us credit for but little feminine delicacy—and the world reasons correctly in doing so. But correct reasoning does not always reach the facts of peculiar cases. It may be thought strange, but I know it to be true, that a woman who in the presence of hundreds suffers herself to be embraced, kissed, and fondled by men of gross character and disgusting manners, and who embraces and caresses them in turn, should revolt at the idea of permitting such liberties in private. I know this to be so in my own case. And even were all those women whose lot is unfortunately cast upon the stage, as licentious as both the virtuous and the vicious are pleased to suppose them, they must indeed be debased and degraded, to yield themselves to that indiscriminate licentiousness which the world's censure would imply. Few know how far the enthusiasm of an artist, his aspirations after excellence, his love of abstract beauty, may check and overcome every prurient thought, every low born imagination. The sculptor, when he moulds the beings of his fancy into forms of loveliness, is alive only to the spirit of his art ; his mind is filled with the beauty of his conceptions, and is purified by the intenseness of his desire to attain the summit of excellence, from every grovelling idea. He is not, surely, to be classed with those who, looking upon his works with vulgar eyes, find in them food for lascivious thoughts, and stimulants to unhallowed passions. So it is with acting. The actress has placed before her a mark of excellence which she is ambitious to attain, and in striving for its attainment, all minor considerations are thrown aside. The exhibition of a passion must not be shorn of its accessories ; and whatever is necessary to its full development she yields to, with as little thought of grossness or indelicacy in caressing an individual who represents her husband or her lover, as the artist indulges when painting Eve in the undress of nature. It would be well for such as suppose that these exhibitions indicate a want of modesty, to know how totally the mind is absorbed in the desire to embody the conceptions of the poet, when an actress in Belvidere or Monimia gives a loose rein to the passions, and regardless of the being withwhom she is associated, contributes, by the very freedom which the over-virtuous delight to censure, in producing the delusion of the scene. In playing her part, not one thought is given to the man whom she embraces. No—she is for the time a fictitious character—the character of the scene, insensible to any other feeling but that which the poet has delineated. But how differently do the work-a-day world argue this matter. They seldom, if ever, separate the actress from the woman—and every action is judged of according to the gross ideas of the vulgar minded, or the fastidious scruples of those who measure a dramatic representation by the rules which prevail in private society. I know full well the invidious position which, as an actress, I occupy in the opinion of the public ; and a consciousness that in my unfortunate profession, every step towards the achievement of excellence must be gained by a sacrifice of personal respect, often gives me melancholy sensations. Do you then wonder at the pain I have suffered from this ma- lignant endeavor of Mc	's to render me ridicu- lous ?" "But still," said Nichols, "the attack in itself is unworthy of notice. The same talent might render the proudest woman in the city an object of equal ridicule." "Very true, but it would not find the public disposed to laugh with the caricaturist. The general sentiment would be against him, for he would have outraged what every man would be ready to defend—the sanctity of female privacy, and the decencies of social life. But such a case is strongly contrasted with mine, and it is that which renders it to me so peculiarly painful. The actress lives in the full glare of public observation, and the libeller who holds her up to contempt, invades no sanctuary which all hold sacred ; he only makes her subservient to public amusement in a new character. If her pride be wounded, if her delicacy be shocked—she has few to sympathise with her, for few believe she possesses either pride or delicacy, and none deem it their duty to defend her from the attacks of her enemy." Fenella paused, and I saw the tears glisten upon her cheek ; but she turned away her face, and hastily brushed them off, as if ashamed that her weakness should be observed. " You do your friends injustice," said I. " You do indeed. There are a few who do not think thus lightly of your feelings, and who are ready to defend you from assaults of whatever kind." "Doubtless there are a few," said she, "who feel for me. It would be unjust in me to doubt it. But it is the want of that general feeling of sympathy which would be excited in favor of any other woman, that I feel most keenly. To know that in proportion as my professional exertions are admired, my private feelings are disregarded, gives point to the malice of Mc	, and renders that a cause of pain and mortification which ought to be the object of contempt. But we will say no more upon the subject. Perhaps I have said too much, for I see that you and Nichols are distressed by my complaints. I will not repeat them ; but endeavor to display more of what Nichols calls philosophy." The train of our conversation was broken off by the entrance of Selden and Cleaveland. Fenella's spirits were soon restored, and she became as gay and fascinating as usual. Various topics were discussed, and much pleasant badinage filled up the time until tea—which Fenella particularly patronized, in spite of the fashion—made its appearance. " Pray, Master Pertinax," said Fenella, " bow have you employed your time since I last saw you ? You have lost a deal of green room scandal, and missed seeing some of the finest of green room absurdities, by your long estrangement from the Theatre." " Well, saving your presence, I have been occupied with better things—a hard student have I been—and although the merry bells of the Driving Club sounded their peals under my windows twice during my seclu- sion ; although I saw their gorgeous train of carioles piled with buffalo robes, and flaunting in blue and crim- son trimmings, glide merrily by ; and though among the furred and feathered demoiselles who sat within them, I knew there was one whom it would have been delight- ful to be near ; nay more, although under a silver-grey Chinchilla bonnet, there shone forth two lustrous black eyes—yet did I resist the lure, and turn again to my studies. I have declined three balls where I knew I should meet that "Cynthia of the minute," with whom, at this particular time, I cannot but believe I am most foolishly in love. I have resisted the temptation of skating, and a special invitation from the Curling Club to witness an important match. All these and many more allurements have failed to withdraw me from my books." " Bless me, what a Solomon you will become, if you persevere in your labors! But your stoicism surprises me. Can it be possible that Marian Lindsay's load-stars failed in attraction ?" "Nonsense ! I have said nothing of Marian Lindsay or her load-stars, as you are pleased to call them. Her eyes are not black, nor are they those I spoke of." " What, a new attraction ! Well, I see that I must relinquish the task of keeping you steady. I had hopes, when I prudently endeavored to prevent your falling in love with me, (which you cannot deny you had more than half a mind to do,) by directing your amorous disposition towards a proper object, that your fancy would endure at least a month or two. Do you not now perceive what a folly I should have been guilty of, had I suffered you to dangle, as you wished, at my apron string?" "I do indeed. Still, I may say with honest Jack Falstaff, 'ere I knew thee, I knew nothing.' " " Yes," said she, " and I can finish the sentence with equal truth—' and now art thou little better than one of the wicked' But I deny your declaration, for you have confessed to the truth of your intrigues with the little Canadian milliner, and the blue eyed Irlandaise." "I admit it; but those were unsophisticated flirtations." " Unsophisticated Mercy on us!" " Oh yes," said Selden, " and he stoutly denies having ever sighed to you, Fenella ; and talks a deal of nonsense about friendship, as though such a feeling ever existed between a lad of nineteen and a lady under twenty-five." "Upon that subject," replied Fenella, "we can at least keep our own counsel." "Come, Cleaveland," said I, "we are bound in the same direction. I have a few words to say to you, and if you are at leisure we will walk." "I hope I have not driven you away," said Selden. "Pshaw ! I am not so easily driven." Tea was over, and Cleaveland and I rose to depart. Fenella accompanied us to the door, and said to me in a monitory tone "Now, Pertinax, be careful what you do in relation to the caricature. Keep out of difficulty with Mc—. You cannot be of any service to me in that affair, and may injure yourself by your interference. I know your disposition to serve me ; but I also know that your impetuosity is more likely to involve you in difficulty.than to bring me out of it. Be cautious, I beseech you." " Do not be alarmed," said I, somewhat piqued, "my indifference will be my protection." " I do not believe that, nor do I believe that you are indifferent to my feelings; and the caution I now give you is a proof that I do not think so." A pressure of the hand was my only reply to this conciliatory speech ; and we left the house. It was early in the evening, and quite dark, as we mounted the ice in the middle of the street, preferring the risk of being run down by traineaus or carloles, on that narrow pass, to stumbling against steps, cellar doors, and other obstructions on the trottoir of an avenue, feebly lighted by here and there a dim and solitary lamp. We pursued our way down St. Paul's street, and in passing the shop where " Timothy Crop, Fashionable Hair Dresser and Perruquier," shone in gilt letters, illuminated by a lamp, a glance shewed us two copies of Fenella's effigy, displayed with most provoking prominence in a bow-window, which was brilliantly lighted. "Curses on that fellow," said I. "Is there tin way in which this nuisance can be prevented ? You are fertile in schemes, Cleaveland ; cannot you contrive some plan, if not to stop the issue of these libels, to revenge the insult offered to our friend?" "Not I indeed, unless we hire Felix Sans Pule* to thump the artist, or get Piquet,f the retired bully, to break his right arm." * There was a family of Sans Pities, belonging to a neighboring seignory, celebrated for their muscular frames and pugilistic powers. They were Voyageurs in the service of the North West, or Hudson's Bay Companies, at the time when those associations were at deadly feud, out of which grew the massacre at Red River. In the spring, previous to the setting out of the North West expeditions, the voyageurs of these companies had their rendezvous in Montreal for a day or two, during which they were generally intoxicated, and scarcely an hour passed that was not distinguished by a pugilistic combat in the old market place, which was their peculiar haunt. The Sans Pities when present, were the champions, and challenged all corners with nearly uniform success. I have never seen more magnificent forms than these brothers displayed, when stripped for a fight. Their chests and shoulders would have been fine models for a Hercules, so muscular were they, and devoid of superfluous flesh. Their style of hitting was peculiar, and differed entirely from the English system, being far more rapid and eccentric. In general an English pugilist was more than a match for the best Canadian bully ; but in one instance the youthful gladiator referred to in the text, was triumphant over a skilful pupil of Crib. It is worthy of remark, that the English bully, when completely sewed up, (to use a phrase of the prize ring) declared in a faint voice, that he had been beaten contrary to all rule, and that Sans Pitie knew no more about boxing than a horse. But the Canadian champion was once well beaten by an antagonist as little skilled as himself in the arts and mysteries of the Five's Court. I was witness to this conflict between him and an English sailor, not half his weight. The Jack-tar completely overcame his Herculean opponent, when it seemed to me that had his frame been made of any material softer than iron, he must have been demolished by Sans Pities blows. f Monsieur Piquet was about this time a member of the Provincial Parliament. How he got there I do not exactly know : the station seemed rather inconsistent with the situation occupied by him in early life. He was a man of uncommon muscular vigor; and had " Not bad ideas, but impracticable. Felix is at Red River, or thereabouts—and Piquet is in Parliament, which should argue that his powers of maiming are fully employed upon the laws of the province." We had paused involuntarily before the window. The shop was thronged with customers, and we saw the barber take down one of the caricatures and exhibit it to an individual, who laughed immoderately as he examined it. My blood boiled as I witnessed this scene. I had been deeply impressed by Fenella's description of her defenceless condition, and the absence of that general feeling of resentment in her case, which would have existed had any other woman been the object of such ridicule. The hearty laugh of the examiner of the picture—the gusto with which he enjoyed the ludicrous figure before him, inspired me with most unchristian feelings, and I could, with the greatest good will, have tweaked his nose with the hot curling irons which the man of hair was applying to his head. As we moved away, I vowed that I would be revenged on the malicious barber—that he at least should not escape. A few moments brought us to my lodgings in the Vieux Jliterche. We sat down by a hot stove, and after having listened to Cleaveland's description of the last party at Madame Feronnier's, without hearing one word, I broke silence. "Cleaveland," said I, " will you join me in a scheme which I have been revolving since we left that infernal barber's?" "I shall be better prepared to give you an answer, when you tell me what you propose." " Then you will not enlist until you know my plan." " Not I. It is my luck to engage in so many hair-brained scrapes of my own, that I will be led blindfold into none of your planning." "But you must not fail me. I have set my heart on your assistance. If I had asked it of Selden, he would have stifled me with prudent advice. Nichols has not hardihood enough for any wicked act; and Marryatt is so completely bewitched with his brunette beauty in the Recolet Suburbs, that he cannot find time for any in his youth been employed by the North West Company, as the bully of their expeditions. His duty was to punish any refractory subordinate by the application of the fist. The voyageurs were an ignorant and lawless set of men, engaged by the company to navigate their batteaux, and to carry the merehandize which constituted their freight, across the portages. The goods were arranged in sacks containing about ninety pounds each and were transported (or perhaps toted would be a more proper word in our latitude) by the voyageurs where the navigation failed. Their labors were consequently very severe ; and it may readily be believed that few but the most reckless and unworthy characters enlisted in these expeditions. They were generally accompanied and conducted by one or two clerks or partners, who required some strong executive power to keep their followers in due submission. Some trusty individual of uncommon strength and hardihood was selected to perform this duty—and such was the situation held by Piquet. He was successful in his enterprizes, and as I was told amassed considerable wealth. At any rate, I knew him as a legislator. I was once in company with this man, when he related some of his early adventures; particularly one, in which, being necessitated to quell the turbulent spirit of a refractory voyageur, he broke the arm of the brawler with one blow of his fist—an achievement of which Monsieur Piquet seemed not a little proud. other roguery. Now for a stirring adventure you are just the lad—first, because you like it, and secondly, because you have the spirit to go through with it." "Really you speak of your enterprize in the Hotspur vein, for like him it seems you are about to read me matter deep and dangerous, As full of peril and adventurous spirit, As to Werwalk a current roaring loud, On the unsteadfast footing of a spear./ But be it what it may, propose to me any reasonable mischief, and je suis s aces." "It is nothing very dangerous in the performance, and the consequences must take care of themselves. I only intend to smash, and that shortly, the how-window of our friend the barber—to scatter his perfumes about his owl head, and give his next door neighbor, the glazier, a job ?" " Is that all? Bless me, how reasonable ! Selden himself could not have advised a more rational and moral mode of punishing this impudent barber.—Why, Pertinax, I did not think you capable of a conception so brilliant. As to breaking the window and scattering the perfumery, we may do it as secure as sleep'—and for the consequences, I have nothing to say on that subject, because they come afterwards; and as Father De Rocher used to tell us, questions must be considered in their proper order : besides, all the wise ones say that fore-thought is better than after-thought. But independent of these considerations, it would be inconsistent in me, who never yet gave a thought to consequences, to do so now ; and some political proser in the Spectateur, said the other day that consistency was a jewel." "Then you enlist in the service." " Yes, my Hotspur ; it is a good plot as ever was laid—an excellent plot. My Lord of York commends the plot, and the general course of the action.' So here is my hand. We will take some pains to do that which will cost Timothy Crop many panes to remedy ; and if we escape the pains and penalties therefor, all will be well." " We must rely upon our heels for that. Give me six yards the start, and I defy any barber in the Cana-des to overtake me. We must show Master Timothy that we have not played at cricket, or run foot races on the wind-mill common for nothing?' "But what missiles shall we use?—have you thought of that, Mon Genera/ "" " What can be better than these ?" said I, taking up a couple of billets of oak from the stove-pan. " Admirable! And when shall we proceed to business ?" " Now—this very hour—we cannot wish a darker night ; and the sooner we carry our design into effect the better." " Very true, for Shakspeare says, that ' Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasms, or a hideous dream.* We will dream as little upon it as possible." "Alms done I Take your billets, and let us march." We sallied forth into the street. It was about nine o'clock, and all was quiet. The light from Crop's window shone brightly in the distance, and invited us to our revenge. The heavy falls of snow are a serious inconvenience in the narrow streets of Montreal, and the manner in which it is disposed of gives, to them a peculiar appearance. When a storm subsides, the whole town is alive with the business of shovelling the snow from the side-walks into the middle of the street, which in the course of a few weeks after the winter sets in, is elevated several feet above its natural level. On the top of this ridge vehicles of all descriptions are forced to pass, and while guiding a cariole along the height, you nod to your pedestrian friends on the side-walks, many feet below you, and peep, if you have any curiosity, into the windows of your neighbor's second story. By gradual packing and freezing, this high-road becomes a complete rampart of ice, along which carioles and traineaus are driven with alarming velocity—to a strange eye presenting the constant prospect of their being hurled down to the side-walk. But such accidents seldom happen. In their own awkward fashion, the Canadian drivers are uncommonly expert, and their hardy little horses are equally so. We kept the side-walk until we reached the corner of St. Nicholas and St. Paul streets, and here we stopped to confer. " By the way," said I, " we had better decide upon the manner of running away. Crop is a tall fellow and long in the legs. It will not do for us to keep together. My plan is this—I will dive into the alley, leading up to the city hotel, cross St. Peter's street and get into the Jesuits's grounds.* You had better take to the opposite side-walk, for you will be perfectly safe there, as you may turn the left corner of St. Peter, and skim away towards the &ears Gris, before Tim can climb to that side of the street. When we have confounded the chase, we will rendezvous in front of the Petit Seminaire, in College street. We shall be near the Mansion * These grounds have since been devoted to public use, and are now intersected by Lemoine, St. Helen, and Recolet streets. They were formerly attached to the religious establishment of the brotherhood, the building of which faced upon Notre Dame street, and were filled with noble elms, all of which have I believe fallen beneath the axe. The accommodations were spacious ; but the buildings, with the exception of the Recolet church, which occupies nearly a centre position, had been appropriated to other than monastic uses long before my recollection. During and just after the last war they were used as the barracks of a regiment of British infantry, and at the grated windows which once let in the light upon the ascetic pursuits and rigid ceremonials of these bigoted religionists—soldiers were seen scouring their muskets or whitening their belts. More recently, the southern portion has been occupied as a Young Ladies Seminary, and the northern as the City Watch-house. The buildings had become public property by the operation of some condition relative to the decrease of the numbers of the order. One only was alive in my time ; and he was often seen in the streets, wearing a small black skull cap, and a long black robe fastened around his body by a white woollen girdle. The Recolet church is to this day a place of Catholic worship, opened on stated days and uncommon occasions. Whether it has been embellished or altered since I saw it, I know not—but at that time it presented a melancholy appearance of decay and dilapidation. It was remarkable for a rude carving over the entrance representing two hands and arms issuing out of the sea, and crossing each other. The carving was colored most unnaturally, and the waves of the sea resembled a congregation of pewter platters. House, where we may refresh ourselves with a bottle of Martinant's London particular, and call at Penella's on our way home." " I see no objection to your plan, Pertinax, only that your part of it is the most hazardous. If Crop pursues, he will naturally stick to his own side-walk, and you must leap in front of him from the street into the alley." " Oh, never fear for me—I shall be scudding through the old Jesuits's elms, long before he will find the hole by which I make my escape. Recollect the rendezvous at the College." Our plan of retreat having been settled, we mounted into the middle of the street, and were in two minutes opposite the devoted shop-window. The lights burned brightly, and at a glance we saw that there was no one within but Crop and a little boy. The window was filled with bottles of Eau de Cologne, Eau de jasmin, extrait de bergamotte, with pots of pomniade extraordinaire, and the like ; and there still hung the offending caricatures. We were elevated some feet above the window, and it presented the finest imaginable mark. " Now," said Cleaveland, " let us separate a few paces, that we may give our object a raking fire; and do the more execution." We were just about to proceed to business, when the sharp sound of a horse's hoofs rang upon the ice near the corner of St. Peter's street. We drew back from the glare of the window to allow the horse and his rider to pass—when, as they approached us, we perceived Marryatt, mounted on his shaggy Shetland pony. " Hey dey," said he, as we made our appearance" what mischief is in the wind now ?" " Stay a moment," said I, " and see us demolish Crop's bow window." " Oh ho, is that the project ? Well I will witness the crash, as I have especial means of escape. I cannot say as much for you or Cleaveland. Crop will catch one or both of you to a certainty." "That is our own concern—but he shall have a race for it. Stay where you are Marryatt, and witness the performance." Cleaveland and I then approached the window, and levelling our billets simultaneously, they fell with unerring aim in the centre of the window, scattering pictures, pomatum and perfumery in every direction. A second billet from each of us completed the work of destruction, and we took to our heels. Cleaveland slipped down to the pavement on the opposite side, and vanished in an instant. I was about ten paces from the alley, (which entered St. Paul street on the same side with the barber's shop,) but before I had cleared that short distance, I was sensible that Crop was in pursuit. From the high ridge of ice on which I stood, to the pavement was at least five feet, and on coming opposite the alley I made a flying leap across the side walk into its entrance. But alas for human hopes !—I had neglected to substitute a pair of shoes for my beets on coming out, and my boot heels were covered with plates of brass, in conformity to a very ridiculous fashion. I cleared the side-walk in gallant style ; but I alighted on my heels in a spot covered with the smoothest ice. The consequence was, that my feet flew from under line, and I fell prostrate. But this was not the worst—I struck my knee upon the ice with a force which might have broken a joint of iron. I made an effort to rise, which was at first ineffectual. The sound of Timothy's running midway between and parallel with St. Paul's feet struck on my ear as he turned the corner. He was and Notre Dame. Here the snow was firm, and the within two paces of me, and in a second more would spot.inviting to my purpose, for St. Sacrament offered have stumbled over me in the dark. But the idea of me a number of places of retreat, where I might have being captured gave me sudden vigor, and overcame defied the scent of my antagonist. the pain of my bruised knee. I sprang upon my feet,	At this corner therefore I made a halt, and while and bounded away towards the entrance of the City Timothy was endeavoring to force me forward, I struck Hotel, turned short to the left, and crossing St. Peter's him a right handed blow in the face, which made him street by another alley, kept on under the wall of bound from his feet and brought him down like a shot. Thatcher's livery stables.	But true to his object he still held to my coat with his Rapidly as I had taken leave of Timothy, he had not right hand, and while I was endeavoring to disengage lost sight of me for a second, until I turned the farther his grasp, he rose again to his feet, and matters assumed corner of the stables. At this point there had been, a their former aspect. Grown desperate by my disapfew weeks previous, a gap in the enclosure of the pointment, I fell upon Timothy without mercy, hitting Jesuits's grounds, through which I had often passed; and right and left whenever I could bring him within the by means of this opening I had intended to lead the range of my blows—for he avoided many of them by chase into those grounds, with all the turnings of which leaping aside. At length a chance blow took effect on I was well acquainted, and where a number of old elms his throat and I was momentarily freed from his hold, would serve to cover my retreat.	but I was so weakened by my exertions that I stum- What was my -consternation on reaching the spot, bled, and again measured my length on the snow. Beto find that the opening had been closed! I was fore I could recover myself, Timothy had as firm a completely cornered, without means of escape, except grasp upon me as ever. by the steep path up which I had come. Along that	Up to this time, not a syllable had passed the lips of path I heard the footsteps of my pursuer, as he picked either: but at this juncture, Timothy opened his his way in the dark. Not a moment was to be lost, mouth, and to some purpose, bellowing " Watch!" at and my determination was instantly taken. I again the top of his voice. Instantly the rattles were heard turned the corner of the stables, and ran down the path at no great distance ; and Timothy repeating the call, with my utmost speed, intending to overthrow Timothy we were soon surrounded by half a dozen watchmen, by running against him. As I approached him, he with staves, rattles and lanterns. stopped, and seeming to comprehend my object, veered I saw plainly that the game was up with me, and a little from the path, so as to break the force of the yielding with a good grace, I followed them in silence. shock, and grasped at me with both his hands.	I was much surprised to find that we had turned the And here but for my boot heels I might have escaped ; left corner of Notre Dame Street, and were entering but again they failed me, I slipped, and Timothy and I the decayed gate of a building which was once an ap- were rolling on the ground together—be clutching to pendage of the Recolet Church, and part of the estab- hold me fast, and I struggling to get away. By mutual lishment of the decayed brotherhood of Loyola. This consent we soon rose upon our feet—he still holding on building had recently been occupied as a watchhouse; with the tenacity of a bull-dog, upon the collar and a fact of which I was ignorant, or master Timothy breast of my clothing.	Crop would not have led me so easily into the lion's den. I had not lived five years in Montreal without be	We entered the building, and found ourselves in a coming sensible of the value of science in the use of rude barrack-like room, around which were the "guar- the fist, and I had taken a series of rude lessons from dians of the night," as they are poetically termed, sit- an Irish sergeant—Fuller not having then appeared in ting, standing, and lying—eating, drinking, and smoCanada to teach the 'Manly art of self-defence.' The king. They were nearly all Canadians ; and in their moment that we were on our feet, I attacked Timothy, blue and grey capets, with the addition of slouched in hopes that he would loosen his hold in showing fight, hats, they might have been taken for a gang of banditti and give me another opportunity of escape. But he in their cavern. was a philosopher in his way, and did not regard pu	When the door closed upon us, and not 'till then, gilistic punishment so much as the retention of his pris Timothy Crop loosened his hold upon my raiment. I oner. He allowed me therefore to mill him without turned to look at him, and saw sufficient proof that mercy, dodging to avoid my blows, but making no my blows, although aimed in the dark, had not been offensive demonstration. I pommelled him severely, made in vain. His visage exhibited various contusions, and might possibly have broken his hold by my re and streams of claret were trickling from his nostrils. peated attacks, but for the slippery place on which we But Timothy, to do him justice, was true game; and stood. Several times I lost my footing and came to the he returned the smile which his pickle brought into my ground. At last yielding to necessity, I relinquished face, with a triumphant expression that raised him the contest and walked quietly with him to the street, much in my estimation. determined when on better ground, to make another While we were eyeing each other an inner door open- effort for liberty.	ed, and the captain of the watch made his appearance. Instead of returning towards his shop, as I supposed Timothy gave me in charge, and the man of authority he would have done, he turned up St. Peter's street, conducted me with all due ceremony into his innermost and led the way towards Notre Dame. I did not then den, where he invited me to take a seat by the stove, perceive his object—perhaps I was too much flurried to and pointing to a dirty straw pallet in a corner of the think of it.. We paced along in a very friendly man room, gave me to understand that upon it I was to ner, until we reached the corner of St. Sacrament street, spend my first night in a watch-house. For the Southern Literary Messenger. Extracts from the Auto-biography of Perth= Placid. MY FIRST NIGHT IN A WATCH/ SE. CHAP. I. The title of this narrative intimates to the reader by a natural inference, that its writer has spent more nights than one in that abode of the unruly—a watchhouse. I will be candid, and admit the fact, that twice during a pretty long and not unadventurous life, it has been my lot to enjoy the security afforded by that refuge of the vagrant. Twice only—I confess to no more. The first of these dilemmas I am about to speak of now—the second may form a subject of future narration. There are few of my readers who have not heard of the city of Montreal, in the Province of Lower Canada, and fewer still who know much of its peculiarities, social, political or architectural, on which it is my design hereafter, supposing that I can keep on good terms with Mr. White, to enlighten them—but not at present. Well, it was my happiness, at an early period of my life, to reside in the good city of Montreal. What carried me there, is my own affair, and I shall merely say that I was neither a trader who cheated the poor Indians out of their pelteries, a smuggler of teas and silks across the frontier, a tin pedlar, nor a bank-note counterfeiter, all of which classes often find it convenient to take up a temporary residence in Canada. I was a wild ungovernable lad, with no parent or guardian to direct me, left entirely to my own impulses, and unfortunately enjoying the pecuniary means of assisting those impulses to bring me into all manner of scrapes, from which it required much ingenuity to extricate myself. The long winters in Canada may convey to a southern reader an idea of dreariness and discomfort, locked up as the people are in enduring frosts—buried for months in continual snows—with one unvaried monotony of dazzling white pervading the face of nature—the streams fast sealed with "thick ribbed ice"—and a thermometer at from twenty to thirty degrees below zero for weeks together. In short, a southern fancy paints Old Winter, ruling with despotic sway, unrestrained by the checks and balances which limit his authority in our more moderate climate—usurping a portion of the nominal domains of autumn and spring—and inflicting through his prime minister, Jack Frost, the most rigorous exactions of a government of force, on the unresisting people—penetrating into their dwellings at all hours, interfering even in the mode of their dress, attending all their movements in town or in country, and invariably assailing the lonely traveller on the extended prairie or in the dreary forest. Such is undoubtedly the picture which a southern imagination draws of a Canadian winter. But social life can modify the worst extremes of nature's inclemency, and find in the very evils of our condition sources of delight and enjoyment. So far from suffering during the winters I spent in Canada, I recall those joyous periods, when I was engaged in the constant pursuit of gaiety and pleasure, and when care had no control over my spirits as the brightest spots on the far off waste of memory. How different were those winters from the fickle, capricious season through which we have just passed. Poets and tourists have celebrated the beauty of Italian skies. I have never seen them—but I can fancy no thing brighter than the heavens in Canada, on a clear frosty night, when every breath of vapor is absorbed and rarefied by the intensity of the cold. Never have I realized in other countries the complete distinctness with which each star comes forth in the azure vault—the palpable suspension of each body of light in the field of air. In other skies the stars and planets seem delineated on a ground of blue. In a Canadian winter night you realize that each orb is in suspension, moving and twinkling through the surrounding ether. This is difficult to describe, and some who have not seen and felt the glories of' the northern heavens as I have—aye, felt them in a double sense, gazing upon them until my soul was wrapt into sublime ecstasy, and my upturned nose frost bitten into the bargain—may think that I am talking nonsense. But the social delights of a Canadian winter are more to my purpose, in disabusing the fancy of those who shiver when they think of these hyperborean regions. Such tremors may be justified when we fancy a winter tramp across the steppe of Russia, or a visit to a Koureen of Zapojoreskies. But Canada—dear, delightful Canada! The gaieties of thy long winters—the dancing—the driving—the dining—the flirtation—the lovemaking, with which thy frosty months abound, might keep warm the heart of a dweller underneath the tro. pies. It was during the winter of ""—, that after a long cessation of theatrical representations in Montreal, a new theatre, which had recently been built, was opened under the management of Mr. T—, with a company principally picked up from the northern theatres of the United States. Since the performances of Prigmore's old company, previous to the declaration of war, in which, I believe, George Barrett, since a favorite in high comedy, was the Roscius, playing Romeo, Hamlet, &c. and in which Fennel played as a star, there had been no regular theatrical establishment in Montreal—although the officers of the garrison gave occasional dramatic exhibitions, and the young citizens sometimes enacted a play or two during a season. A regular theatre was a new thing, and excited much attention. The manager was perhaps the finest specimen of self-conceit that the world ever saw.* He was a short stumpy kind of man, with a face of most fixed character, which delineated all the passions with the self-same expression. His smooth pert visage, lit up by two bead-like black eyes, seemed so entirely contented with its natural expression, as to render it unnecessary to assume any other. His voice, shrill and guttural, emulated his face in its uniformity. He had a game leg, about three inches shorter than its brother, which gave him a halt of so decided a character as not to be disguised. Yet he believed himself to be a most distinguished actor, and *He was not only an actor, but a dramatist. He was, or claimed to be, the author of " Rudolph, or the Robbers of Calabria," a very tedious piece of Brigandism ; and "One o'clock, or the Wood Damon," almost a literal version of Monk Lewis's " Wood Damon." He used to accuse Lewis of having stolen his melo-drama, and told a long and rather incomprehensible story of the manner in which the theft was perpetrated. He also wrote a play called " Valdemar, or the German Exiles," which was performed in the new theatre, at the period alluded to in my story, and possessed, I think, some little merit. Besides being actor and play wright, he was a scene-painter, and kept a tavern in the good city of Montreal. fully competent to the representation of Richard III, man in the perception of female attractions, had far (for which his lameness was often quoted by him as a greater charms in the eyes of the females themselves, natural advantage) and even the more youthful and well being a handsome well built fellow, and having had favored heroes of Shakspeare. The vanity of this man some practice in the delicate task of making himself might have been harmless, had he not been the manager. agreeable to the beau sere. It so turned out, that, while But in that capacity it interfered most wofully with the the old gentleman was making an inquiry into the state well ordering of affairs. The company was by no means of his feelings towards the pretty young actress, which in much trouble. That buoyant mind which the vicissitudes of a changing and precarious profession could not sadden or subdue, proved itself vulnerable to the weapons of ridicule. "And so, my young deserter, you have come at last. Here have I been grieving myself to death at the malice of Mc—, and you have felt no sympathy in my trouble, or have been too indolent or indifferent to give me one word of comfort. Shame on you! Is this your friendship ?" I made my excuses with the best grace I could assume, and assured her I had just learned the cause of her uneasiness. She readily believed me, for she was too sincere herself to doubt the sincerity of others. "I do not know," said she, "but my annoyance at this affair may seem overstrained. To those who call themselves philosophers, it may appear childish in me to grieve at such an attempt to render me ridiculous. But I am a mere woman, and no philosopher ; besides, my case is a peculiar one. On the stage we have so often, I might say so habitually, to overstep what by other women are considered the bounds of modesty, that she who preserves the essential principle of that great charm of the sex, is most jealous in keeping her claim to it inviolate. The world gives us credit for but little feminine delicacy—and the world reasons correctly in doing so. But correct reasoning does not always reach the facts of peculiar cases. It may be thought strange, but I know it to be true, that a woman who in the presence of hundreds suffers herself to be embraced, kissed, and fondled by men of gross character and disgusting manners, and who embraces and caresses them in turn, should revolt at the idea of permitting such liberties in private. I know this to be so in my own case. And even were all those women whose lot is unfortunately cast upon the stage, as licentious as both the virtuous and the vicious are pleased to suppose them, they must indeed be debased and degraded, to yield themselves to that indiscriminate licentiousness which the world's censure would imply. Few know how far the enthusiasm of an artist, his aspirations after excellence, his love of abstract beauty, may check and overcome every prurient thought, every low born imagination. The sculptor, when he moulds the beings of his fancy into forms of loveliness, is alive only to the spirit of his art ; his mind is filled with the beauty of his conceptions, and is purified by the intenseness of his desire to attain the summit of excellence, from every grovelling idea. He is not, surely, to be classed with those who, looking upon his works with vulgar eyes, find in them food for lascivious thoughts, and stimulants to unhallowed passions. So it is with acting. The actress has placed before her a mark of excellence which she is ambitious to attain, and in striving for its attainment, all minor considerations are thrown aside. The exhibition of a passion must not be shorn of its accessories ; and whatever is necessary to its full development she yields to, with as little thought of grossness or indelicacy in caressing an individual who represents her husband or her lover, as the artist indulges when painting Eve in the undress of nature. It would be well for such as suppose that these exhibitions indicate a want of modesty, to know how totally the mind is absorbed in the desire to embody the conceptions of the poet, when an actress in Belvidere or Monimia gives a loose rein to the passions, and regardless of the being withwhom she is associated, contributes, by the very freedom which the over-virtuous delight to censure, in producing the delusion of the scene. In playing her part, not one thought is given to the man whom she embraces. No—she is for the time a fictitious character—the character of the scene, insensible to any other feeling but that which the poet has delineated. But how differently do the work-a-day world argue this matter. They seldom, if ever, separate the actress from the woman—and every action is judged of according to the gross ideas of the vulgar minded, or the fastidious scruples of those who measure a dramatic representation by the rules which prevail in private society. I know full well the invidious position which, as an actress, I occupy in the opinion of the public ; and a consciousness that in my unfortunate profession, every step towards the achievement of excellence must be gained by a sacrifice of personal respect, often gives me melancholy sensations. Do you then wonder at the pain I have suffered from this ma- lignant endeavor of Mc	's to render me ridicu- lous ?" "But still," said Nichols, "the attack in itself is unworthy of notice. The same talent might render the proudest woman in the city an object of equal ridicule." "Very true, but it would not find the public disposed to laugh with the caricaturist. The general sentiment would be against him, for he would have outraged what every man would be ready to defend—the sanctity of female privacy, and the decencies of social life. But such a case is strongly contrasted with mine, and it is that which renders it to me so peculiarly painful. The actress lives in the full glare of public observation, and the libeller who holds her up to contempt, invades no sanctuary which all hold sacred ; he only makes her subservient to public amusement in a new character. If her pride be wounded, if her delicacy be shocked—she has few to sympathise with her, for few believe she possesses either pride or delicacy, and none deem it their duty to defend her from the attacks of her enemy." Fenella paused, and I saw the tears glisten upon her cheek ; but she turned away her face, and hastily brushed them off, as if ashamed that her weakness should be observed. " You do your friends injustice," said I. " You do indeed. There are a few who do not think thus lightly of your feelings, and who are ready to defend you from assaults of whatever kind." "Doubtless there are a few," said she, "who feel for me. It would be unjust in me to doubt it. But it is the want of that general feeling of sympathy which would be excited in favor of any other woman, that I feel most keenly. To know that in proportion as my professional exertions are admired, my private feelings are disregarded, gives point to the malice of Mc	, and renders that a cause of pain and mortification which ought to be the object of contempt. But we will say no more upon the subject. Perhaps I have said too much, for I see that you and Nichols are distressed by my complaints. I will not repeat them ; but endeavor to display more of what Nichols calls philosophy." The train of our conversation was broken off by the entrance of Selden and Cleaveland. Fenella's spirits were soon restored, and she became as gay and fascinating as usual. Various topics were discussed, and much pleasant badinage filled up the time until tea—which Fenella particularly patronized, in spite of the fashion—made its appearance. " Pray, Master Pertinax," said Fenella, " bow have you employed your time since I last saw you ? You have lost a deal of green room scandal, and missed seeing some of the finest of green room absurdities, by your long estrangement from the Theatre." " Well, saving your presence, I have been occupied with better things—a hard student have I been—and although the merry bells of the Driving Club sounded their peals under my windows twice during my seclu- sion ; although I saw their gorgeous train of carioles piled with buffalo robes, and flaunting in blue and crim- son trimmings, glide merrily by ; and though among the furred and feathered demoiselles who sat within them, I knew there was one whom it would have been delight- ful to be near ; nay more, although under a silver-grey Chinchilla bonnet, there shone forth two lustrous black eyes—yet did I resist the lure, and turn again to my studies. I have declined three balls where I knew I should meet that "Cynthia of the minute," with whom, at this particular time, I cannot but believe I am most foolishly in love. I have resisted the temptation of skating, and a special invitation from the Curling Club to witness an important match. All these and many more allurements have failed to withdraw me from my books." " Bless me, what a Solomon you will become, if you persevere in your labors! But your stoicism surprises me. Can it be possible that Marian Lindsay's load-stars failed in attraction ?" "Nonsense ! I have said nothing of Marian Lindsay or her load-stars, as you are pleased to call them. Her eyes are not black, nor are they those I spoke of." " What, a new attraction ! Well, I see that I must relinquish the task of keeping you steady. I had hopes, when I prudently endeavored to prevent your falling in love with me, (which you cannot deny you had more than half a mind to do,) by directing your amorous disposition towards a proper object, that your fancy would endure at least a month or two. Do you not now perceive what a folly I should have been guilty of, had I suffered you to dangle, as you wished, at my apron string?" "I do indeed. Still, I may say with honest Jack Falstaff, 'ere I knew thee, I knew nothing.' " " Yes," said she, " and I can finish the sentence with equal truth—' and now art thou little better than one of the wicked' But I deny your declaration, for you have confessed to the truth of your intrigues with the little Canadian milliner, and the blue eyed Irlandaise." "I admit it; but those were unsophisticated flirtations." " Unsophisticated Mercy on us!" " Oh yes," said Selden, " and he stoutly denies having ever sighed to you, Fenella ; and talks a deal of nonsense about friendship, as though such a feeling ever existed between a lad of nineteen and a lady under twenty-five." "Upon that subject," replied Fenella, "we can at least keep our own counsel." "Come, Cleaveland," said I, "we are bound in the same direction. I have a few words to say to you, and if you are at leisure we will walk." "I hope I have not driven you away," said Selden. "Pshaw ! I am not so easily driven." Tea was over, and Cleaveland and I rose to depart. Fenella accompanied us to the door, and said to me in a monitory tone "Now, Pertinax, be careful what you do in relation to the caricature. Keep out of difficulty with Mc—. You cannot be of any service to me in that affair, and may injure yourself by your interference. I know your disposition to serve me ; but I also know that your impetuosity is more likely to involve you in difficulty.than to bring me out of it. Be cautious, I beseech you." " Do not be alarmed," said I, somewhat piqued, "my indifference will be my protection." " I do not believe that, nor do I believe that you are indifferent to my feelings; and the caution I now give you is a proof that I do not think so." A pressure of the hand was my only reply to this conciliatory speech ; and we left the house. It was early in the evening, and quite dark, as we mounted the ice in the middle of the street, preferring the risk of being run down by traineaus or carloles, on that narrow pass, to stumbling against steps, cellar doors, and other obstructions on the trottoir of an avenue, feebly lighted by here and there a dim and solitary lamp. We pursued our way down St. Paul's street, and in passing the shop where " Timothy Crop, Fashionable Hair Dresser and Perruquier," shone in gilt letters, illuminated by a lamp, a glance shewed us two copies of Fenella's effigy, displayed with most provoking prominence in a bow-window, which was brilliantly lighted. "Curses on that fellow," said I. "Is there tin way in which this nuisance can be prevented ? You are fertile in schemes, Cleaveland ; cannot you contrive some plan, if not to stop the issue of these libels, to revenge the insult offered to our friend?" "Not I indeed, unless we hire Felix Sans Pule* to thump the artist, or get Piquet,f the retired bully, to break his right arm." * There was a family of Sans Pities, belonging to a neighboring seignory, celebrated for their muscular frames and pugilistic powers. They were Voyageurs in the service of the North West, or Hudson's Bay Companies, at the time when those associations were at deadly feud, out of which grew the massacre at Red River. In the spring, previous to the setting out of the North West expeditions, the voyageurs of these companies had their rendezvous in Montreal for a day or two, during which they were generally intoxicated, and scarcely an hour passed that was not distinguished by a pugilistic combat in the old market place, which was their peculiar haunt. The Sans Pities when present, were the champions, and challenged all corners with nearly uniform success. I have never seen more magnificent forms than these brothers displayed, when stripped for a fight. Their chests and shoulders would have been fine models for a Hercules, so muscular were they, and devoid of superfluous flesh. Their style of hitting was peculiar, and differed entirely from the English system, being far more rapid and eccentric. In general an English pugilist was more than a match for the best Canadian bully ; but in one instance the youthful gladiator referred to in the text, was triumphant over a skilful pupil of Crib. It is worthy of remark, that the English bully, when completely sewed up, (to use a phrase of the prize ring) declared in a faint voice, that he had been beaten contrary to all rule, and that Sans Pitie knew no more about boxing than a horse. But the Canadian champion was once well beaten by an antagonist as little skilled as himself in the arts and mysteries of the Five's Court. I was witness to this conflict between him and an English sailor, not half his weight. The Jack-tar completely overcame his Herculean opponent, when it seemed to me that had his frame been made of any material softer than iron, he must have been demolished by Sans Pities blows. f Monsieur Piquet was about this time a member of the Provincial Parliament. How he got there I do not exactly know : the station seemed rather inconsistent with the situation occupied by him in early life. He was a man of uncommon muscular vigor; and had " Not bad ideas, but impracticable. Felix is at Red River, or thereabouts—and Piquet is in Parliament, which should argue that his powers of maiming are fully employed upon the laws of the province." We had paused involuntarily before the window. The shop was thronged with customers, and we saw the barber take down one of the caricatures and exhibit it to an individual, who laughed immoderately as he examined it. My blood boiled as I witnessed this scene. I had been deeply impressed by Fenella's description of her defenceless condition, and the absence of that general feeling of resentment in her case, which would have existed had any other woman been the object of such ridicule. The hearty laugh of the examiner of the picture—the gusto with which he enjoyed the ludicrous figure before him, inspired me with most unchristian feelings, and I could, with the greatest good will, have tweaked his nose with the hot curling irons which the man of hair was applying to his head. As we moved away, I vowed that I would be revenged on the malicious barber—that he at least should not escape. A few moments brought us to my lodgings in the Vieux Jliterche. We sat down by a hot stove, and after having listened to Cleaveland's description of the last party at Madame Feronnier's, without hearing one word, I broke silence. "Cleaveland," said I, " will you join me in a scheme which I have been revolving since we left that infernal barber's?" "I shall be better prepared to give you an answer, when you tell me what you propose." " Then you will not enlist until you know my plan." " Not I. It is my luck to engage in so many hair-brained scrapes of my own, that I will be led blindfold into none of your planning." "But you must not fail me. I have set my heart on your assistance. If I had asked it of Selden, he would have stifled me with prudent advice. Nichols has not hardihood enough for any wicked act; and Marryatt is so completely bewitched with his brunette beauty in the Recolet Suburbs, that he cannot find time for any in his youth been employed by the North West Company, as the bully of their expeditions. His duty was to punish any refractory subordinate by the application of the fist. The voyageurs were an ignorant and lawless set of men, engaged by the company to navigate their batteaux, and to carry the merehandize which constituted their freight, across the portages. The goods were arranged in sacks containing about ninety pounds each and were transported (or perhaps toted would be a more proper word in our latitude) by the voyageurs where the navigation failed. Their labors were consequently very severe ; and it may readily be believed that few but the most reckless and unworthy characters enlisted in these expeditions. They were generally accompanied and conducted by one or two clerks or partners, who required some strong executive power to keep their followers in due submission. Some trusty individual of uncommon strength and hardihood was selected to perform this duty—and such was the situation held by Piquet. He was successful in his enterprizes, and as I was told amassed considerable wealth. At any rate, I knew him as a legislator. I was once in company with this man, when he related some of his early adventures; particularly one, in which, being necessitated to quell the turbulent spirit of a refractory voyageur, he broke the arm of the brawler with one blow of his fist—an achievement of which Monsieur Piquet seemed not a little proud. other roguery. Now for a stirring adventure you are just the lad—first, because you like it, and secondly, because you have the spirit to go through with it." "Really you speak of your enterprize in the Hotspur vein, for like him it seems you are about to read me matter deep and dangerous, As full of peril and adventurous spirit, As to Werwalk a current roaring loud, On the unsteadfast footing of a spear./ But be it what it may, propose to me any reasonable mischief, and je suis s aces." "It is nothing very dangerous in the performance, and the consequences must take care of themselves. I only intend to smash, and that shortly, the how-window of our friend the barber—to scatter his perfumes about his owl head, and give his next door neighbor, the glazier, a job ?" " Is that all? Bless me, how reasonable ! Selden himself could not have advised a more rational and moral mode of punishing this impudent barber.—Why, Pertinax, I did not think you capable of a conception so brilliant. As to breaking the window and scattering the perfumery, we may do it as secure as sleep'—and for the consequences, I have nothing to say on that subject, because they come afterwards; and as Father De Rocher used to tell us, questions must be considered in their proper order : besides, all the wise ones say that fore-thought is better than after-thought. But independent of these considerations, it would be inconsistent in me, who never yet gave a thought to consequences, to do so now ; and some political proser in the Spectateur, said the other day that consistency was a jewel." "Then you enlist in the service." " Yes, my Hotspur ; it is a good plot as ever was laid—an excellent plot. My Lord of York commends the plot, and the general course of the action.' So here is my hand. We will take some pains to do that which will cost Timothy Crop many panes to remedy ; and if we escape the pains and penalties therefor, all will be well." " We must rely upon our heels for that. Give me six yards the start, and I defy any barber in the Cana-des to overtake me. We must show Master Timothy that we have not played at cricket, or run foot races on the wind-mill common for nothing?' "But what missiles shall we use?—have you thought of that, Mon Genera/ "" " What can be better than these ?" said I, taking up a couple of billets of oak from the stove-pan. " Admirable! And when shall we proceed to business ?" " Now—this very hour—we cannot wish a darker night ; and the sooner we carry our design into effect the better." " Very true, for Shakspeare says, that ' Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasms, or a hideous dream.* We will dream as little upon it as possible." "Alms done I Take your billets, and let us march." We sallied forth into the street. It was about nine o'clock, and all was quiet. The light from Crop's window shone brightly in the distance, and invited us to our revenge. The heavy falls of snow are a serious inconvenience in the narrow streets of Montreal, and the manner in which it is disposed of gives, to them a peculiar appearance. When a storm subsides, the whole town is alive with the business of shovelling the snow from the side-walks into the middle of the street, which in the course of a few weeks after the winter sets in, is elevated several feet above its natural level. On the top of this ridge vehicles of all descriptions are forced to pass, and while guiding a cariole along the height, you nod to your pedestrian friends on the side-walks, many feet below you, and peep, if you have any curiosity, into the windows of your neighbor's second story. By gradual packing and freezing, this high-road becomes a complete rampart of ice, along which carioles and traineaus are driven with alarming velocity—to a strange eye presenting the constant prospect of their being hurled down to the side-walk. But such accidents seldom happen. In their own awkward fashion, the Canadian drivers are uncommonly expert, and their hardy little horses are equally so. We kept the side-walk until we reached the corner of St. Nicholas and St. Paul streets, and here we stopped to confer. " By the way," said I, " we had better decide upon the manner of running away. Crop is a tall fellow and long in the legs. It will not do for us to keep together. My plan is this—I will dive into the alley, leading up to the city hotel, cross St. Peter's street and get into the Jesuits's grounds.* You had better take to the opposite side-walk, for you will be perfectly safe there, as you may turn the left corner of St. Peter, and skim away towards the &ears Gris, before Tim can climb to that side of the street. When we have confounded the chase, we will rendezvous in front of the Petit Seminaire, in College street. We shall be near the Mansion * These grounds have since been devoted to public use, and are now intersected by Lemoine, St. Helen, and Recolet streets. They were formerly attached to the religious establishment of the brotherhood, the building of which faced upon Notre Dame street, and were filled with noble elms, all of which have I believe fallen beneath the axe. The accommodations were spacious ; but the buildings, with the exception of the Recolet church, which occupies nearly a centre position, had been appropriated to other than monastic uses long before my recollection. During and just after the last war they were used as the barracks of a regiment of British infantry, and at the grated windows which once let in the light upon the ascetic pursuits and rigid ceremonials of these bigoted religionists—soldiers were seen scouring their muskets or whitening their belts. More recently, the southern portion has been occupied as a Young Ladies Seminary, and the northern as the City Watch-house. The buildings had become public property by the operation of some condition relative to the decrease of the numbers of the order. One only was alive in my time ; and he was often seen in the streets, wearing a small black skull cap, and a long black robe fastened around his body by a white woollen girdle. The Recolet church is to this day a place of Catholic worship, opened on stated days and uncommon occasions. Whether it has been embellished or altered since I saw it, I know not—but at that time it presented a melancholy appearance of decay and dilapidation. It was remarkable for a rude carving over the entrance representing two hands and arms issuing out of the sea, and crossing each other. The carving was colored most unnaturally, and the waves of the sea resembled a congregation of pewter platters. House, where we may refresh ourselves with a bottle of Martinant's London particular, and call at Penella's on our way home." " I see no objection to your plan, Pertinax, only that your part of it is the most hazardous. If Crop pursues, he will naturally stick to his own side-walk, and you must leap in front of him from the street into the alley." " Oh, never fear for me—I shall be scudding through the old Jesuits's elms, long before he will find the hole by which I make my escape. Recollect the rendezvous at the College." Our plan of retreat having been settled, we mounted into the middle of the street, and were in two minutes opposite the devoted shop-window. The lights burned brightly, and at a glance we saw that there was no one within but Crop and a little boy. The window was filled with bottles of Eau de Cologne, Eau de jasmin, extrait de bergamotte, with pots of pomniade extraordinaire, and the like ; and there still hung the offending caricatures. We were elevated some feet above the window, and it presented the finest imaginable mark. " Now," said Cleaveland, " let us separate a few paces, that we may give our object a raking fire; and do the more execution." We were just about to proceed to business, when the sharp sound of a horse's hoofs rang upon the ice near the corner of St. Peter's street. We drew back from the glare of the window to allow the horse and his rider to pass—when, as they approached us, we perceived Marryatt, mounted on his shaggy Shetland pony. " Hey dey," said he, as we made our appearance" what mischief is in the wind now ?" " Stay a moment," said I, " and see us demolish Crop's bow window." " Oh ho, is that the project ? Well I will witness the crash, as I have especial means of escape. I cannot say as much for you or Cleaveland. Crop will catch one or both of you to a certainty." "That is our own concern—but he shall have a race for it. Stay where you are Marryatt, and witness the performance." Cleaveland and I then approached the window, and levelling our billets simultaneously, they fell with unerring aim in the centre of the window, scattering pictures, pomatum and perfumery in every direction. A second billet from each of us completed the work of destruction, and we took to our heels. Cleaveland slipped down to the pavement on the opposite side, and vanished in an instant. I was about ten paces from the alley, (which entered St. Paul street on the same side with the barber's shop,) but before I had cleared that short distance, I was sensible that Crop was in pursuit. From the high ridge of ice on which I stood, to the pavement was at least five feet, and on coming opposite the alley I made a flying leap across the side walk into its entrance. But alas for human hopes !—I had neglected to substitute a pair of shoes for my beets on coming out, and my boot heels were covered with plates of brass, in conformity to a very ridiculous fashion. I cleared the side-walk in gallant style ; but I alighted on my heels in a spot covered with the smoothest ice. The consequence was, that my feet flew from under line, and I fell prostrate. But this was not the worst—I struck my knee upon the ice with a force which might have broken a joint of iron. I made an effort to rise, which was at first ineffectual. The sound of Timothy's running midway between and parallel with St. Paul's feet struck on my ear as he turned the corner. He was and Notre Dame. Here the snow was firm, and the within two paces of me, and in a second more would spot.inviting to my purpose, for St. Sacrament offered have stumbled over me in the dark. But the idea of me a number of places of retreat, where I might have being captured gave me sudden vigor, and overcame defied the scent of my antagonist. the pain of my bruised knee. I sprang upon my feet,	At this corner therefore I made a halt, and while and bounded away towards the entrance of the City Timothy was endeavoring to force me forward, I struck Hotel, turned short to the left, and crossing St. Peter's him a right handed blow in the face, which made him street by another alley, kept on under the wall of bound from his feet and brought him down like a shot. Thatcher's livery stables.	But true to his object he still held to my coat with his Rapidly as I had taken leave of Timothy, he had not right hand, and while I was endeavoring to disengage lost sight of me for a second, until I turned the farther his grasp, he rose again to his feet, and matters assumed corner of the stables. At this point there had been, a their former aspect. Grown desperate by my disapfew weeks previous, a gap in the enclosure of the pointment, I fell upon Timothy without mercy, hitting Jesuits's grounds, through which I had often passed; and right and left whenever I could bring him within the by means of this opening I had intended to lead the range of my blows—for he avoided many of them by chase into those grounds, with all the turnings of which leaping aside. At length a chance blow took effect on I was well acquainted, and where a number of old elms his throat and I was momentarily freed from his hold, would serve to cover my retreat.	but I was so weakened by my exertions that I stum- What was my -consternation on reaching the spot, bled, and again measured my length on the snow. Beto find that the opening had been closed! I was fore I could recover myself, Timothy had as firm a completely cornered, without means of escape, except grasp upon me as ever. by the steep path up which I had come. Along that	Up to this time, not a syllable had passed the lips of path I heard the footsteps of my pursuer, as he picked either: but at this juncture, Timothy opened his his way in the dark. Not a moment was to be lost, mouth, and to some purpose, bellowing " Watch!" at and my determination was instantly taken. I again the top of his voice. Instantly the rattles were heard turned the corner of the stables, and ran down the path at no great distance ; and Timothy repeating the call, with my utmost speed, intending to overthrow Timothy we were soon surrounded by half a dozen watchmen, by running against him. As I approached him, he with staves, rattles and lanterns. stopped, and seeming to comprehend my object, veered I saw plainly that the game was up with me, and a little from the path, so as to break the force of the yielding with a good grace, I followed them in silence. shock, and grasped at me with both his hands.	I was much surprised to find that we had turned the And here but for my boot heels I might have escaped ; left corner of Notre Dame Street, and were entering but again they failed me, I slipped, and Timothy and I the decayed gate of a building which was once an ap- were rolling on the ground together—be clutching to pendage of the Recolet Church, and part of the estab- hold me fast, and I struggling to get away. By mutual lishment of the decayed brotherhood of Loyola. This consent we soon rose upon our feet—he still holding on building had recently been occupied as a watchhouse; with the tenacity of a bull-dog, upon the collar and a fact of which I was ignorant, or master Timothy breast of my clothing.	Crop would not have led me so easily into the lion's den. I had not lived five years in Montreal without be	We entered the building, and found ourselves in a coming sensible of the value of science in the use of rude barrack-like room, around which were the "guar- the fist, and I had taken a series of rude lessons from dians of the night," as they are poetically termed, sit- an Irish sergeant—Fuller not having then appeared in ting, standing, and lying—eating, drinking, and smoCanada to teach the 'Manly art of self-defence.' The king. They were nearly all Canadians ; and in their moment that we were on our feet, I attacked Timothy, blue and grey capets, with the addition of slouched in hopes that he would loosen his hold in showing fight, hats, they might have been taken for a gang of banditti and give me another opportunity of escape. But he in their cavern. was a philosopher in his way, and did not regard pu	When the door closed upon us, and not 'till then, gilistic punishment so much as the retention of his pris Timothy Crop loosened his hold upon my raiment. I oner. He allowed me therefore to mill him without turned to look at him, and saw sufficient proof that mercy, dodging to avoid my blows, but making no my blows, although aimed in the dark, had not been offensive demonstration. I pommelled him severely, made in vain. His visage exhibited various contusions, and might possibly have broken his hold by my re and streams of claret were trickling from his nostrils. peated attacks, but for the slippery place on which we But Timothy, to do him justice, was true game; and stood. Several times I lost my footing and came to the he returned the smile which his pickle brought into my ground. At last yielding to necessity, I relinquished face, with a triumphant expression that raised him the contest and walked quietly with him to the street, much in my estimation. determined when on better ground, to make another While we were eyeing each other an inner door open- effort for liberty.	ed, and the captain of the watch made his appearance. Instead of returning towards his shop, as I supposed Timothy gave me in charge, and the man of authority he would have done, he turned up St. Peter's street, conducted me with all due ceremony into his innermost and led the way towards Notre Dame. I did not then den, where he invited me to take a seat by the stove, perceive his object—perhaps I was too much flurried to and pointing to a dirty straw pallet in a corner of the think of it.. We paced along in a very friendly man room, gave me to understand that upon it I was to ner, until we reached the corner of St. Sacrament street, spend my first night in a watch-house. For the Southern Literary Messenger. Extracts from the Auto-biography of Perth= Placid. MY FIRST NIGHT IN A WATCH/ SE. CHAP. I. The title of this narrative intimates to the reader by a natural inference, that its writer has spent more nights than one in that abode of the unruly—a watchhouse. I will be candid, and admit the fact, that twice during a pretty long and not unadventurous life, it has been my lot to enjoy the security afforded by that refuge of the vagrant. Twice only—I confess to no more. The first of these dilemmas I am about to speak of now—the second may form a subject of future narration. There are few of my readers who have not heard of the city of Montreal, in the Province of Lower Canada, and fewer still who know much of its peculiarities, social, political or architectural, on which it is my design hereafter, supposing that I can keep on good terms with Mr. White, to enlighten them—but not at present. Well, it was my happiness, at an early period of my life, to reside in the good city of Montreal. What carried me there, is my own affair, and I shall merely say that I was neither a trader who cheated the poor Indians out of their pelteries, a smuggler of teas and silks across the frontier, a tin pedlar, nor a bank-note counterfeiter, all of which classes often find it convenient to take up a temporary residence in Canada. I was a wild ungovernable lad, with no parent or guardian to direct me, left entirely to my own impulses, and unfortunately enjoying the pecuniary means of assisting those impulses to bring me into all manner of scrapes, from which it required much ingenuity to extricate myself. The long winters in Canada may convey to a southern reader an idea of dreariness and discomfort, locked up as the people are in enduring frosts—buried for months in continual snows—with one unvaried monotony of dazzling white pervading the face of nature—the streams fast sealed with "thick ribbed ice"—and a thermometer at from twenty to thirty degrees below zero for weeks together. In short, a southern fancy paints Old Winter, ruling with despotic sway, unrestrained by the checks and balances which limit his authority in our more moderate climate—usurping a portion of the nominal domains of autumn and spring—and inflicting through his prime minister, Jack Frost, the most rigorous exactions of a government of force, on the unresisting people—penetrating into their dwellings at all hours, interfering even in the mode of their dress, attending all their movements in town or in country, and invariably assailing the lonely traveller on the extended prairie or in the dreary forest. Such is undoubtedly the picture which a southern imagination draws of a Canadian winter. But social life can modify the worst extremes of nature's inclemency, and find in the very evils of our condition sources of delight and enjoyment. So far from suffering during the winters I spent in Canada, I recall those joyous periods, when I was engaged in the constant pursuit of gaiety and pleasure, and when care had no control over my spirits as the brightest spots on the far off waste of memory. How different were those winters from the fickle, capricious season through which we have just passed. Poets and tourists have celebrated the beauty of Italian skies. I have never seen them—but I can fancy no thing brighter than the heavens in Canada, on a clear frosty night, when every breath of vapor is absorbed and rarefied by the intensity of the cold. Never have I realized in other countries the complete distinctness with which each star comes forth in the azure vault—the palpable suspension of each body of light in the field of air. In other skies the stars and planets seem delineated on a ground of blue. In a Canadian winter night you realize that each orb is in suspension, moving and twinkling through the surrounding ether. This is difficult to describe, and some who have not seen and felt the glories of' the northern heavens as I have—aye, felt them in a double sense, gazing upon them until my soul was wrapt into sublime ecstasy, and my upturned nose frost bitten into the bargain—may think that I am talking nonsense. But the social delights of a Canadian winter are more to my purpose, in disabusing the fancy of those who shiver when they think of these hyperborean regions. Such tremors may be justified when we fancy a winter tramp across the steppe of Russia, or a visit to a Koureen of Zapojoreskies. But Canada—dear, delightful Canada! The gaieties of thy long winters—the dancing—the driving—the dining—the flirtation—the lovemaking, with which thy frosty months abound, might keep warm the heart of a dweller underneath the tro. pies. It was during the winter of ""—, that after a long cessation of theatrical representations in Montreal, a new theatre, which had recently been built, was opened under the management of Mr. T—, with a company principally picked up from the northern theatres of the United States. Since the performances of Prigmore's old company, previous to the declaration of war, in which, I believe, George Barrett, since a favorite in high comedy, was the Roscius, playing Romeo, Hamlet, &c. and in which Fennel played as a star, there had been no regular theatrical establishment in Montreal—although the officers of the garrison gave occasional dramatic exhibitions, and the young citizens sometimes enacted a play or two during a season. A regular theatre was a new thing, and excited much attention. The manager was perhaps the finest specimen of self-conceit that the world ever saw.* He was a short stumpy kind of man, with a face of most fixed character, which delineated all the passions with the self-same expression. His smooth pert visage, lit up by two bead-like black eyes, seemed so entirely contented with its natural expression, as to render it unnecessary to assume any other. His voice, shrill and guttural, emulated his face in its uniformity. He had a game leg, about three inches shorter than its brother, which gave him a halt of so decided a character as not to be disguised. Yet he believed himself to be a most distinguished actor, and *He was not only an actor, but a dramatist. He was, or claimed to be, the author of " Rudolph, or the Robbers of Calabria," a very tedious piece of Brigandism ; and "One o'clock, or the Wood Damon," almost a literal version of Monk Lewis's " Wood Damon." He used to accuse Lewis of having stolen his melo-drama, and told a long and rather incomprehensible story of the manner in which the theft was perpetrated. He also wrote a play called " Valdemar, or the German Exiles," which was performed in the new theatre, at the period alluded to in my story, and possessed, I think, some little merit. Besides being actor and play wright, he was a scene-painter, and kept a tavern in the good city of Montreal. fully competent to the representation of Richard III, man in the perception of female attractions, had far (for which his lameness was often quoted by him as a greater charms in the eyes of the females themselves, natural advantage) and even the more youthful and well being a handsome well built fellow, and having had favored heroes of Shakspeare. The vanity of this man some practice in the delicate task of making himself might have been harmless, had he not been the manager. agreeable to the beau sere. It so turned out, that, while But in that capacity it interfered most wofully with the the old gentleman was making an inquiry into the state well ordering of affairs. The company was by no means of his feelings towards the pretty young actress, which
