THE WRITINGS OF GEORGE WASHINGTON ; being his Correspondence, Addresses, Messages, and other Papers, Mil. cial and private, selected and published from the original manuscripts ; with a Life of the Author, Notes • and Illustrations; Vols. II, III, IV, V and VI; by Jared Sparks.— Boston Russell, Odiorno & Co. We regret tit* we deferred our notice of the second and third volumes of this interesting and valuable work,' until the appearance of the other three. It has now so grown on our hands, that it is impossible to do justice to it in an article of any reasonable compass. Yet we know few works that we would more strongly recommend to the public. We have little curiosity to peep into dead men's bort-folios, and perhaps the world has seen few that would not suffer in reputation by being tracked, through all their walk in life, by daily memoranda and documentary evidence. The man whose history, under this searching scrutiny, shows " no variableness nor shadow of turning," must differ very much from the multitude, even of those we call the great and good. Nothing certainly can show a fuller and firmer consciousness of rectitude of intention, than to begin life with a purpose of leaving behind a full and fair account of it. Such memorials carefully written out and preserved, like the books of a tradesman, bespeak a steadiness of honesty, that never for a moment distrusts itself. Which of us, commencing a diary, would feel sure that he might not do something to-morrow that he would not choose to set down ? Which of us opening a letter book, which should exhibit his whole correspondence, would not be tempted to leave out something? Here is a man who chooses that his steps shall all be in the light. I3e begins lite, by laying down to himself rules of action and deportment. He commits these to paper, and hands them down to posterity, with a full register of all his acts and words and thoughts. The remarkable modesty of General Washington, would alone prevent us from understanding this as a challenge to the whole world, to compare his principles, professions and actions throughout, defying any imputation of inconsistency. There is nothing more remarkable in this, than the evidence it affords of the early consciousness of a something distinguishing him from other men, which seems, most unaccountably, to have found its way into his humble mind. It is the most striking instance on record of the instinct of greatness. It is a study for the metaphysician and philosopher. From the beginning, the work is done as if for posterity, and executed as if intended for the eyes of the world. This in a boy, who never made any ostentation of himself, his endowments, or his actions; who formed a very humble estimate of his own powers, and seemed through life to seek no reward but his own approbation, is one of those strange phenomena which we refer to the influence of a peculiar nature, acting by inscrutable impulses, of which the subject of them is hardly conscious. Did it occur to General Washington, even at that early age, that he might be a father, and that his chil- dren might find an humble pride in looking over the unspotted page of his unpretending life? Perhaps so. Perhaps this thought was all that his young ambition (that passion which humility itself cannot extinguish in the breast of greatness) ventured to whisper to his heart. If so, the anticipation has been nobly and mysteriously accomplished. Like the patriarch of old, childish though he was, God has made him the father of nations ; and it should indeed be the pride of us his children, to read the history of his.life; to trace his steps ; to study the system of moral discipline by which he trained. himself to greatnets and virtue; to know him as he was; and to mould ourselves by his precepts and example. No man ever left to his posterity so rich a legacy as the extraordinary work before us; and we owe many thanks to Mr. Sparks for the labor which has prepared it for the public eye. We really think that it is in this point of view that this work is most interesting and valuable. Its importance as affording authentic materials for what is commonly called history, strikes us less forcibly ; though in this respect it must be highly useful. It certainly affords. the historian more satisfactory materials for his than can be supplied from any other source, or for any ether portion of history. But what is that ? What is history, for the most part, but a narrative of events, the results of which cannot be effected by our right or wrong apprehensions of them. What matters it at this day, whether we believe that Caesar killed Brutus, or Brutus Caesar? What will it concern posterity whether the glory of the field of Waterloo belongs to Wellington or Blucher But when will it be otherwise than important and profitable to study the process by which Washington became what he was? When will it cease to be a lesson of wisdom, to look narrowly into the private and public history of the most fortunate man that the world has ever seen, and observe that the quality which most eminently distinguished him from other men, the quality to which his success, his prosperity, his usefulness, and his imperishable glory are mainly attributable, was VIRTUE? Since the day when the important truth was first proclaimed, that " in keeping God's commandments there is great reward," when was it so illustrated as in this instance? Had there been a flaw in the character of General Washington, could the most malignant scrutiny have detected in his history anything dishonorable, anything unjust, anything selfish, anything on which reproach could fasten, he could not have accomplished what he did. No man could, be his talents what they might, who did not bring to his task such a character for virtue as would secure the confidence of the well-intentioned, and shame the artful and designing from their purposes. A vicious and corrupt people who fight for conquest ; a lawless banditti who fight for spoil, may be led to victory by talent, enterprise, courage and energy ; but the triumphs of Freedom can only be achieved under the auspices of Virtue. When men are in a mood to rally to the banner of one whose life is stained with crime, they do but deceive themselves if they think they are contending for freedom. When they are prepared to take such a one as "A SECOND WASHINGTON," they are only fit to contend for a choice of masters. This is eternal truth ; but it will not be truth to them. But we wander from the work before us ; though we trust what we have said will dispose those " who have ears to hear" to set a high value on the book of which we proceed to give a short account. The first of these volumes contains all the papers and private and public letters of General Washington, which could illustrate either his character, or the history of the country, up to the commencement of the revolution. It is a portion of history highly interesting, especially to Virginians, and on which none but a doubtful light is shed from any other source. Here we have an authentic account of Braddock's war; a sort of war of which the readers of history have, in general, no idea but that which is drawn from romances and tales. It is a warfare which does not recommend itself to the imagination, by the "pride, pomp and circumstance" so interesting to those who "kiss my Lady Peace at home." But since the invention of gun-powder, there is no fighting which gives so much room for the display of prowess, courage, coolness and address, 'and in which victory is so sure to be the prize of these qualities. "Many a brave man," says Don Quixotte, "has lost his life by the hand of a wretch who was frightened at the flash of his own gun." Not so in Indian warfare. The man who is scared never escapes but by flight. How should he ? There he stands be- considered in all the intervals of action; all these quail-hind his tree, while at the distance of a few yards stands tics combined and harmonized by honor, integrity, and his enemy, watching with the eye of a lynx, with his a scrupulous regard to all the duties of public and pririfle to his cheek, and ready to put a ball through any vete life; all made "to drink into one spirit." all "rampart that is exposed for a moment. To anticipate him ; hers, every one of them in the same body," all working to get a shot at him ; to draw his fire, and then drive to the same end ; diverse yet congruous. What is there him from his shelter, is a business in which success de- in the history of human nature, so grand, so majestic, ' ponds on steadiness, self-possession, and presence of so elevating to the heart and hopes of man mind, as well as dexterity and skill. He who thus kills	That virtue, which is never selfish in its ends, and his man, is a brave man ; and hence, among the In- ever scrupulous in its choice of means, can rarely rise diens, a display of scalps is a proof of courage never to a high place among the great ones of the earth, un- questioned. It was in this sort of warfiire that Wash- less associated with a strength of wing which shall ington served his apprenticeship. It was there he enable it to soar above those whose flight is unencumlearned to look danger steadily in the face, and to pos- bored by the clog of self-denial. Virtue in high places sess his soul in calmness amid the fiercest storm of bat- is thus so rare a sight, that when we find it there, it so tle. There is no such school. The art of war is what much engrosses our attention, that we are apt to over-a Martinet may learn. But the faculty of carrying look the faculties by which it rose. Men like, too, to that art into practice, of applying its rules in the crisis delude themselves with the belief that their admiration which shakes the nerves, and unsettles the mind, is only is a tribute to virtue ; that the honors and emoluments acquired by the " taste of danger." To him who pos- they bestow are given as the reward of virtue. Think- sesses that, the rest is a school-boy's task.	ing thus, they think the better of themselves, and are The other four volumes of the work contain the pa- ready to take at his word the man who disclaims any pers relating to the war of the revolution. Such a pretension to those more showy endowments which we body of evidence, so completely above an exception, reward for our own sakes. So we cheat ourselves; and can hardly be found on the subject of any other wan so we cheat our benefactors ; not indeed of the fume We are not sure that any historian has ever yet taken they prize most highly, but of that which glitters bright-the time and pains to collate and digest. the whole, and est in the eyes of the world. Look at that wonderful to deduce all the essential results. The means of doing man, the blaze of whose glory pales even the "Julian so are here put in the hands of the public, and we may Star" itself; before whose power all Europe trembled, hope that some one qualified and disposed for the task and America crouched ; and let us ask ourselves how will address himself to it, and furnish the world with a far the extent of his achievements might have been cur-history at once succinct and accurate, in which refer- tailed, had he ever permitted himself for a moment to ences to authorities may stand in place of discussions. "forget the expedient in considering of the right ;" and It is a fault of contemporary history that it is almost submitted to have his choice of means limited by any always given on partial and imperfect evidence, which regard to the laws of war or peace, of man or God is liable to be afterwards explained away, contradicted His great maxim, that "in War, time is every thing," and falsified. It is not until some time after the event, was well illustrated by the success of one, who never that all the testimony is in the hands of the historian. lost a moment in working the complex problem of That time has now conic as to the American Revolt- right and expediency. Compare the rushing, desolating lion. A concise history may be now written with re- tempest, of his career, with the cautious march of Washferences to this work, which taken in connexion with ington, picking his way with an anxious regard to duty, it, will be more satisfactory and conclusive than any and ever watchful of his steps, lest he might tread upon now in existence. But every one who pretends to ac- a worm. Compare his abounding resources, all used quaint himself with all that is most interesting, especi- without scruple, without reserve, with the scanty means ally to Virginians, should secure a copy of this book.	of the champion of our freedom, rendered yet more Mr. Sparks has given us some interesting specimens scanty by his uniform care to do wrong to none, and of the sort of history that we contemplate. In his never to soil his hand, his name or his conscience with appendices he presents succinct. narratives of the prin. any thing unclean. cipal actions of the war, the accuracy of which, the	The fifth and last of these volumes brings down the reader has it in his power to test by the evidence in the war to March 1780. How many more there will be, body of the work. This is judicious and in good taste. Mr. Sparks himself does not know. He will go on But after all, the great charm and value of this work with his selections until he shall have laid before the is, that it is a east from living nature, of the mind of public all that he deems most valuable of the writings "the nobleSt man that ever lived in the tide of time." of General Washington. We trust that he will use' We cannot dwell too much on the contemplation of his discreetly and fairly his power over the purses of his peculiar character. His high sense of moral worth, and subscribers, who have engaged to take the work for the lofty aspirations of conscious greatness, looking out better for worse, be it more or less, at so much per from behind the veil of genuine modesty and humility volume. The price is so liberal as to afford a high with which he delighted to shroud himself: the chival- temptation ; but we hope Mr. Sparks will resist it. rous and daring spirit ever champing on the curb of We should be sorry to see a work commencing so nobly, prudence, but never impatiently straining against it.: degenerate into a mere book-making job. We hope the native fierceness of his temper, occasionally flashing not to have the remains of the father of our country through his habitual moderation and self-command ; treated like those of an old horse, whose heartless owner the promptitude and clearness of his conceptions, so never thinks ho has got all the good of him, until his modestly suggested, so patiently revised, so calmly re- skin is sent to the tanner, his fat. to the tallow-chandler, and his bones to the soap-boiler. Such is the treatment which other great men have experienced at the hands of " their children after the flesh ;" dishonored in their graves by the reckless and indecent publication of every thing to which their names could give a market value. Let us bespeak a more considerate and decorous use of the rich legacy left us by him whom we reverence as the "father of our liberties." It is perhaps, beside the general purpose of our remarks, to extract a letter, illustrating a point in General Washington's character, of which we have said nothing. That he was stern, and that he seemed cold we know• It is equally certain that he was kir.d, courteous, and . tender, and it is delightful to see how eagerly his benevolence catches at an opportunity to pour balm into the wounds of an enemy. The following letter is found at p. 266, vol. 5. "To Lieutenant General Burgoyne. "Head Quarters, .March 11th, 1778. " Sir,—I was only two days since honored with your very obliging letter of the I lth of February. Your indulgent opinion of my character, and the polite terms in which you arc pleased to express it, are peculiarly flattering ; and I take pleasure in the opportunity you have afibrded, of assuring you, that far from suffering the views of national opposition to be imbittered and debased by personal animosity, I am ever ready to do justice to the merit of the man and soldier, and to esteem where esteem is due, however the idea of a public enemy may interpose. You will not think it the language of unmeaning ceremony, if I add, that sentiments of personal respect, in the present instance, are reciprocal. "Viewing you in the light of an officer contending against what I conceive to be the rights of my country, the reverses of fortune you experienced in the field cannot be unacceptable to me ; but, abstracted from emir siderations of national advantage, I can sincerely sympathize with your feelings, as a soldier, the unavoidable difficulties of whose situation forbade his success ; and as a man, whose lot combines the calamity of ill health, the anxieties of captivity, and the painful sensibility for a reputation exposed, where he most values it, to the assaults of malice and detraction. "As, your aid-dc-camp went directly to Congress, the business of your letter to me had been decided before it came to hand. I am happy that their cheerful acquiescence in your request? prevented the necessity of my intervention ; and wishing you a safe and agreeable passage, with a perfect restoration to your health, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, &c. &e." In General Burgoyne's reply, he says : " I beg you to accept my sincerest acknowledgments for your oblig- ing letter. 1 find the character, which I before knew to be respectable, is also perfectly amiable; and I should have few greater private gratifications in seeing our melancholy contest at an end, than that of cultivating your friendship." How beautiful! How delightful is this exhibition of the best feelings of the heart, under circumstances which the ferocious and brutish use as a pretext for giving free scope to the worst ! How truly does the poet sing ! 4, Fair as the earliest beam of eastern light, When first by the bewildered pilgrim spied, It smiles upon the dreary brow of night, And silvers o'er the torrents foaming tide, And lights the fearful path by mountain side; Fair as that beam, although the fairest far, Giving to horror grace, to danger pride, Shine martial faith, and courtesy's bright star, Through all the wreckful storms that cloud the brow of wart' * * We implore the lenient judgment of our brethren of the The Italian Sketch-Book. Philadelphia: Key 4, Biddle. This is a very handsome duodecimo, and presents more than ordinary claims to attention. It is the work of an American, and purports to be written during a sojourn at Venice, Florence, Naples, and Rome. The book is chiefly made up of sketches and descriptions of these world-renowned cities. It. will be seen that there is nothing very novel in the subject, and the question naturally arises "Who has not already heard all that is worth knowing about Venice, Florence, Naples, and Rome?" But, notwithstanding the triteness of his theme, our American traveller has contrived to throw an uncommon interest over his pages. They are finely diversified with stories well-told, essays tending to illustrate points of local or social interest in Italy, and much descriptive writing which has all the force and fidelity of painting. For the Southern Literary Messenger. CHRISTIAN EDUCATION. It is a grand desideratum in all the affairs of life, to hold fast what we get. The btisiness of evangelizing the world, is like the steno of Sisyphus, continually recoiling upon each successive generation. We want something like what the sailors call a Paul to the Capstan,—a sort of Ratchet. This is the business of Christian Education, and the problem is to devise such a system of religious training and instruction, as shall be best adapted to that end. It must be admitted that hitherto but little has been done, notwithstanding that the blessings of the gospel are promised to believers and to their children also. It is not found that the care of pious parents, to infuse religious sentiments into the hearts of their children, is attended with any remarkable success. Indeed, there is often found a prejudice against religion, which seems to have grown up with them, and is eradicated with the more difficulty, because it has sprung up and rooted itself in a soil cleared from the rank weeds of vicious indulgence, and prepared to receive the seed of the spirit of God. This seed the enemy snatches away, and scatters the taxes of enmity and rebellion in the place of it. They spring up in the night. They grow in darkness, shaded by the pall of a staid demeanor and assumed sobriety of deportment. The promise is nevertheless often fulfilled in a remarkable manner, long after the anxious parent has gone to his rest, and the child, grown up to manhood, has taken his station among his fellows, in the affairs of life. Then it is, that the recollections of his youth; of the discipline and habits of his childhood, come upon him, like a confused and troubled dream: Softened by time, as by distance, objects lose their asperities ; any harshness which had once -estranged him is forgotten, and he now comes to dwell, with sad and self-reproachful feelings, on his departure from the example of strictness, sobriety and gravity, which' he had once renounced :— " How gladly would the man recall to life The toy's neglected sire, whose sternest frown Was but the graver countenance of love," Under the influence of such feelings, he often turns back into the path from which he strayed. But how much better never to have left it ! How many sorrows has he in the mean time brought upon himself, by vicious self-indulgence! Hew much matter of repentance has he provided for his future life! How many has he lcd astray by evil counsels and evil example, who are still wandering in the mazy wilderness of sin, and may never recover the way that leads to heaven !	- It is surely well to consider, whether there is no remedy for the-se evils. Every man is a priest in his own house, and is not only charged with the card of the souls of his children; but is-bound also, as far as possible, to make them instruments of good to others. What should we say to him who should make his house a menagerie of ravenous and destructive beasts, to be turned out as they grow up to prey upon the flocks and herds of his neighbors? And what better is he who carefully adorns and accomplishes the persons and minds of his children, with all the graces of manners, intelligence and address, which give them so much power over the principles and conduct, and happiness, 'of their associates, without guarding against the abuse of this power, by impressing their hearts with the love of religion and virtue, and a sense of the value of the souls of others? They go forth as fiends of darkness, in the garb of angels of light, and contamination, and misery, and death, are the fruits of their intercourse with the children of men. Of this fault, it is not pretended that Christian parents are willingly guilty. They are not even easeful` in many instances, to impart the ornamental parts of education, which so much enhance the power of seduction, but they innocently supply an instrument hardly less powerful, in the familiarity-with the language of the Bible, which is often acquired by those who have no taste for its doctrines. When the deVil cannot robe himself in the rainbow garment of Ithuriel, he can, at least, "quote scripture for his ‘purpose," and many a heart has been corrupted, and 'many a mind confounded by scraps and ends of texts, torn from their connexion, and uttered in derision by those who have been taught to get verses by rote—but not, as the good old phrase is, by heart. 0! ever while we live, let us make our children learn the Bible By HEART, or not at all, that when they speak its language, they may speak as one whose "mouth speaketh out of the fulness of his own HEART." This is the great point to be accomplished. How is it to be effected? The answer is plain. By addressing the gospel to the HEART. By the same means which a judicious and affectionate parent uses to infuse into the bosom of his child, the spirit of cheerful and willing obedience to himself. Let him carefully show both himself and his Maker to the infant's mind, as the personification of love. While he anxiously contrives to make him feel that to the love of his earthly parent, he owes all the benefits that he receives, let him point his attention also to that Father who is in heaven, and from whom he himself derives all the means of ministering to the wants and pleasures of the child. When he gives a bit of bread to the hungry urchin, and asking if it is good, receives an answer which shows that the little fellow's heart is full of grateful love, let him tell him what it is made of, and while he shows him the green blade from which, by a wonderful and mysterious contrivance, the grain is to be elaborated, and marks the half-incredulous wonder with which the information is received, let hint, tell him that this is the work of God, who causes the rain to fall, and the sun to shine, and matures the fruits of the earth for the benefit of his children. Such occasions of calling the attention of a child to the goodness, and bounty, and love of God, are continually recurring. He is never too young to receive impressions of love. Before he knows' the meaning of the word, he takes them from his experience of the care and fondness of his mother; and long after he has begun to prattle, this feeling thus early iMplanted, continues to flourish alone, and affords the only sanction of parental authority. How happy is he, and how sweet to behold his happiness, while in the pursuit of his little foolish joys, the " todlin wee thing" needs no restraint from mischief, but the playful look, helfsmile, half-frown, and the admonishing voice which warns without alerming Well might our Saviour say, "that of such is the kingdom of heaven," where love is the only law; and loVe the only duty, and love the only sanction. Under this sweet engaging discipline, love becomes the habit of his mind, and long before he is capable of comprehending any but the simplest ideas, the foundation is laid in his heart, of those affections, by means of which he is to be forined to virtue, honor and happi- ness. 'What idea (next after those derived from things present, to the senses,)—what idea is more simple, more easily apprehended, than this; that while he receives all good things. from the hands of his parents, I they are sent to him by a friend he- has never seen, Whose name is God.. 'What occasion- for telling him who God is, or where he dWells, or any thing more than that he is good, and loves good boys, and will continue to love hith and send him good things as long as he is good ? 'Is it not easy to impress his mind With the same feeling which is cherished towards-his dear Aunt or kind Grandmama, of whom he is reminded every morning, when he drinks his milk 'out of a pretty cup, on which he is taught to read, "a present for my dear boy ?" There is no time lost. The idea of the spiritual nature of God cannot be communicated until the mind is ready to receive it, and then it is uttered in one word, and comprehended in one moment. The vanity of a parent may be mortified, that his child does not know any thing of these high mysteries, at an age when other children of whom we read in good books, have been found disputing with the doctors about the trinity and the compound nature of the Redeemer. But this vanity, like many other human errors, needs the restraint of reason. For if it be asked, how long should this state of things be kept up? I would answer, as long as possible. If man is never to enter into the kingdom of heaven but fts a little child, I would gladly keep him as a little child to the day of his death. But RS this is not possible, I would apply my answer to the actual state of facts, and say that the discipline of love should be continued as long as love continues to supply the necessary motives to necessary restraint: I would therefore venture to recommend the imposition of no restraints, ancrno tasks, but such as are necessary ; and if possible, I would impose only such npon an infant as are obviously necessary, and, on an older child, such as he can be clearly made to see the necessity of. Such a system not only prolongs the reign, and confirms the habit of love, but prepares the mind to acquiesce with entire confidence in the wisdom and discretion of the parent. Let care therefore supply, as much as possible, the place of authority. Let the mother's eye be on her child, and then, instead of turning, him loose with a code of unexplained laws upon his back, she will have it in her.power to draw his attention from unlawful to laWful objects, and to lead bins away Unconsciously from forbidden places. The beaw. tiful story of the mother who bared her bosom to draw away her child from the edge of the cliff, illustrates this idea. I would say then to Christian parents, prolong as much as possible the season of childhood—the empire of endearment and love; prolong that season when the hearts of your children are all your own, and divide them with God. Let their heads alone. No one ever teaches a child to talk. He learns it of hiMself more readily _and more perfectly, than he can ever afterwards acquire a new language under the most skilful instructor. He has enough to do in acquiring those ideas which are necessary to him, and are suggested by the objects around him. He learns a great deal, and it is easy to help him to learn, without giving him lessons. He may have nothiing of what we would_ dignify by the names of knathledge and Wisdom, but he will acquire a great deal of sense, and may have very just notions of What it is twbe a good boy, without having his mind perplexed with definitions of sin. The spirit of imita, tion will keep him busy. Teach hien to love you, and he will need no command to make him try to do.what he sees you do. Let him crawl. He will not long be content to go on all fours, when he sees his beloved and honored father walking erect. Curiosity will make hiM eager enough to know the meaning of letters, and he will esteem it a privilege to be allowed to look at I round 0, and crooked S, and to be taught to read for himself in the pretty picture books, out of which his dear mother is in the habit of reading entertaining stories to him. Keep bad examples from before his eyes, and the opportunities of mischief out of his way, and keep his heart alive to a sense of the love of his parents and the love of God, until his mind has time to settle into a IYAB1T of love, obedience and virtue. For reasons of the same sort, I would refrain from presenting in the second stage of education, any views of religion that to the literal and unpractised mind of a child, might seem at variance with his earlier conceptions of the divine character. I am very sure that any doctrines actually at variance with them must be false; and though I believe that none such may be entertained by any sincere- and intelligent christian, yet it has somehow so happened, that many modes of expression have obtained currency in the world, which a novice would be startled at. I should therefore be careful, not to go beyond the plain letter of scripture in explaining to him religious truth. The well digested form of sound doctrine as it is there set forth, would be almost my sole reliance. I would be careful to accompany this with appeals to his own experience and observation for the truth, that, as a general rule, it is our own limit if we are not happy. That occasionally, indeed, we receive injury at the hands of others, and that therefore it is that we are so often led to fall into pits of our own digging, that we may be not so fond of digging them in, future. I would endeavor thus to thmiliarize him with a sense of the necessity of punishment, as the preventive of evil, and to enable him to comprehend to what lengths of mischief the simple principle of self-love would impel the best imaginable finite being, if he could feel perfectly sure that no manner of harm to himself could possibly arise from the indulgence of any desire. This idea, as it seems to me, is capable of being placed in plain colloquial language, in so clear a light, that any ingenuous 'mind would be readily brought to acquiesce in the necessity of God's moral government of the moral universe, in the necessity of punishing sin in order to prevent it, and the true benevolence of resolutely inflicting the necessary punishment, as the preventive of the far greeter sum of suffering which the impurity of sin would produce. I should not fear that a mind habituated throughout to cherish the sentiments of gratitude and love, would be slow to understand, or reluctant to believe a plan of comprehensive and general utility devised by the spirit of universal benevolence for the greatest possible good of the whole, or impatient to endure such portion of evil, as, in the execution of such a plan, it might be called to bear. I should anxiously endeavor to make my pupil sensible, that a plan of coercion, intended to procure a cheerful, affectionate and happy obedience, (and no other obedience can be happy,) must be understood by those who are made subject to it, to be so intended, and to explain to him -the decisive proof of such intention which is afforded, when the ruler himself condescends to endure a portion of the punishment due to the sins of his people, and graciously pardons all whom this exhibition of his goodness brings to sincere repentance. With these suggestions, gently insinuated from time to time, and containing as I verily believe the pure milk of the word, the best aliment for youthful minds, I should content myself; and leave him to seek the confirmation of these ideas in the Bible; nor would I suffer him, un- til on the verge of manhood, to puzzle his understanding and aglict Iris spirit With the perusal of works of theology. In confirmation of the ideas I have suggested, let me beg the reader to observe how much more readily, and more frequently, the principles of religion take root in female minds, than in those of men. flow many examples do we see among them of the most tender and fervent piety, and how seldom do we find it incumbered with the heavy lumber of theological learning, or frittered down into nice and shadowy distinctions. Yet are they wise unto salvation, possessing that faith by Which the heart believed' unto righteousness, though perhaps Unable to give any other reason for their faith, than that God is love, and in proof of his love gave' himself to die for the sins of the world. Whence comes this tendency among them to imbibe this simple and saving faith, unless it be from the peculiarities of their education? The discipline of infancy is prolonged with them. They are kept under the eye of the mother, whose unsuspected vigilance supplies the place of commands, imposes an unperceived restraint, and renders the habits of decorum, propriety, meekness and obedience, a sort of second nature. Restrained only by the silken cord of love, whose weight they feel not, they never strain against it, nor try to throw it off. Their Minds and tempers are formed rather by habit than precept, and their obedience is secured, not by punishment or the fear of it, but by prevention. They are accustomed to do right, because they have no opportunities of doing wrong, without violating thatinstinet of propriety, which makes it painful to. do what we feel to be wrong in the presence of those we loVe. When left to themselves, they do what is right, because they have been long accustomed to do it; and they know it to be right, because thus acting, they have always lived in the enjoyment of those peaceable fruits which an upright conduct can alone produce. It will be seen that many of my remarks on the subject of instruction, apply also to that of discipline. I have already shown that the discipline, whose purpose is to prepare the child for his duties to his parents, should be modified by a proper regard to bis duties to God. In like manner, that which may be called religious discipline, should be so regulated as not to counteract what has been already done. Parental training, if I may so distinguish it, should be so managed as to cultivate the love of the child for his parents; religious training, so as to cultivate his love for God. It would be strangely inconsistent, that we should be careful not to offend and estrange a child by imposing on him, of our own, autherityi any harsh, unexplained and inexplicable commands, and at the same time load him, by the alleged command of God, with burthens grievous to be borne. Duties which- he is not old enough to understand the: nature of, are not his duties. There is no more violation of God's law in a child of a certain age Playing on the Sabbath, than in the sports of a puppy. Yet king before he is old enough to. be capable of a violation of this law, it is a matter of great importance that he should be gradually and carefully trained, and prepared to obey it.-. In this training, I would carefully avoid any thing like austerity. I would familiarize his infant ear to the name of Sunday, and accustom him to regard it as a day of privileges. Put on his best clothes, caress him, praise him, warn him to keep himself sweet and clean, make him take notice that every body else is so, and that nobody is made to do any work, and all because it is Sunday; make him observe the staid and quiet behavior of every body about the house, and see how soon he will get his little stool, and set up with his hands before him, and try to behave pretty too. When this is done, enough is done for the beginning. When he is tired of imitating the grave demeanor of others, let him go. The spirit of imitation will return again and again ; the habits it induces will make a deeper and deeper impression, and if he is carefully imbued with a love for his parents,- and a love for God, without being taught to dread and hate the Sabbath, he will be thus well prepared to submit cheerfully to its restraints, by the time he is old enough to know the reason of them. Let him see that you too, submit to them cheerfully. Let him miss nothing:of your accustomed kindness or amenity of manner on that day. Do not let him learn to think of it as "a day for a man to afflict his soul, and hang down his head like a bull-rush," a day of faultfinding, and formal observance, and Judaical austerity. In short, let him see that you esteem the Sabbath as a day of privilege, and leave the rest as much as possible to the spirit of affectionate imitation. - I would say the same of other religious duties. Do not force the little drowsy urchin to sit up to family prayers. When he happens to do so, let him hear you thank God in simple terms for the privilege of being permitted to pray to him, and implore of him blessings whose value he feels and knows. If you find occasion to preach in your prayers, (a bad practice by the way,) do not preach about matters which none but a Doctor of Divinity can be expected to understand. On the interesting subject of fashionable amusements, as they are called, I own I feel more difficulty. It chiefly arises from the consideration that the youth who is old enough to take an interest in such amusements, is at a more unmanageable age than formerly. It is not so easy to restrain him, without letting him be conscious of the restraint. It is not so easy to draW him off from a pernicious-pursuit, to one less dangerous. Ile is no longer to be satisfied with those cheap equivalents for forbidden gratifiCations, which made it easy to command his obedience, without estranging his aflections.	The whole bttsiness of education at this stage, is a difficult and delicate operation. I cannot imagine any general rule for a class of cases as various as all the infinite varieties of the human character. Let us suppose some of them. If; in spite of all the care that had been taken to soften and subdue his heart, and beguile him from self-love to the love of his friends, and of God: his best friend, if in spite of all this he continued obdurate, wilful and rebelliouS, I am conscious that I should be at my wit's end. I do not lcnow but that in such a case, it would be the part of wisdom to yield to those feelings which a parent would naturally experienee, and, acting as in obedience to the unerring instincts of nature, to resort to severity instead of tenderness, and endeavor to bring down his heart with sorrow. As a part of such a system, it would be a matter of course, to deny him this indulgence. A different case would be that of a youth of mercurial temper, and warm feelings, who had grown up in habitual love and reverence for his parents and his Maker, and whose buoyant spirit and restless temper, and keen appetite for enjoyment, might render him impatient of such restraint. Even in this case I should not too readily relax it. I should endeavor if possible to ascertain whether it might be enforced without impairing those tender and reverential sentiments. If so, I should enforce it. If not, I would yield with undissenibled reluctance, but without reproach. I should endeavor to draw him into a contest of generosity, with a hope that he would not long consent to be outdone. But in no case would I surrender the end for the means, and do violence to the best, and kindliest, and holiest affections of the human heart, and run the risk of destroying them, by restraining a youth from things not evil -in themselves, but only evil in their tendencies. The only antidote to the love of pleasure, is the love of God. In truth the great evil of the love of pleasure, is that it is an antidote to the love of God, and when the authority of God is used to force one away from a much coveted enjoyment, there is danger that it may but make him love God less, and pleasure more. But it is the saying of a wise man, that where an appetite for any thing actually exists, the best security against excess; is in a regulated indulgence; and to this indulgence I would resort with an humble hope that my pupil might find wisdom to add this too to the list of blessings experienced at the hands of his Maker, until the victory should at last result to him to whom it be- longs. For the remaining case of a young man having no taste for such pleasures, and content to spend his time in reading and meditation, I would' prescribe nothing more than this; that lie should- not be encouraged to bless God that he was not as other men, but be kept on the alert by a warning that sin enters into the heart by more avenues than one. For the Southern Literary Messenger. EXTRACT From Reminiscences of a Western Traveller. " I presume," said I, " that having so long resided in Kentucky, you must have had some acquaintance with Indian warfare." " I had no occasion," he replied, " to come to Kentucky to learn that. I may say, that 1 have had something to do with it all my life, and it had to do with me before I was born." The speaker was a tall, handsome.4man, uncommonly stout, with an appearance of great strength, perfect health, and a quiet good humor, which disposed him to be communicative, merely by way of obliging. Though by no means garrulous, I' had discovered that he was ready to tell whatever another might be desirouis of hearing. He spoke with that strong accent, and deliberate tone, which characterize the Scotch Irish race, and which always, to my ear, conveys a promise that what is said will be said distinctly and clearly. Here then was the very man I wanted. I had left the peaceful scenes of the Atlantic coast, expecting, not indeed to " roam through enters vast and deserts wild," in my western tour, (for my maps and gazetteer had taught me better,) but to find some traces of the scenes, which but a few years before, had made it dangerous for a white man to set his foot where we now rode along securely. My eye had eagerly scanned every object which afforded promise of food to my young and eager imagination ; but as yet I had found none. The soft beauty and exuberant fertility of the country, need only the touch of civilization to take from it every appearance of ,wildness, and I cc-J1d hardly bring Myself to believe that it had been so lately the haunt of the prowling savage. My eathusiasm was consequently much damped; but it was not extinguished, and these last words of my companion blew it into a flame. A well directed question soon drew him out. •	" I was born," said he, " among the mountains of Virginia. I never-saw my father. - He was killed at the battle of Point Pleasant, just before I came into the world. That is the reason why I said that Indian fighting had to do with me before I was born. But that was not all ; many years before that, the Indians made a break on our settlement, and carried off my oldest brother, and kept him." " Did you never see him again?" " I suppose I have, but I did not know it at the e." As lie said this, a gleoM came over his countenance, which checked my inquisitiveness, and he rode on, perhaps a mile, in moody silence. At length his brow cleared, and he again spoke, but in a somewhat saddened tone. It is something strange ; I am not supersti- tious, and yet it seems to me, as if at times, w hen people are in great distress of mind, they are apt to say things that turn out almost like a prophecy. It was a great grief to my mother, the loss of her child, and the longer she lived the more she mourned after him. He was quite small when they took him ; and they carried him away over the lakes, so far, that they never heard where he was, until ho was dmost grown up, a perfect wild man. My mother was a religious woman; and the thought of his being brought up among savages, where the word of God could never reach him, went to her heart- She said, it was always borne upon her mind that he was not dead, and that he would grow up among those vile wretches, to be the death of his own Either, and perhaps to die at last by the hand of one of his own brothers. When they raised a party to follow the Indians, she would go with them, and all the way, she said, she looked and looked, in hopes to see where they had dashed, out her poor child's brains against a tree. It was the only comfort she hoped for, and that was denied her. " As I told you, they never heard of him till he was near or quite a man ; and that was just before Dunmore's war. There was no chance to do any thing towards getting him home at that time, for it was dangerous to go near the Ohio. Indeed, all they knew was, that there was a white man of about his age among the Indians, who answered to name. It was not until after the peace that we kneW certainly all about him. " Well! he was at the battle of the Point, fight- ing among the Shawanees; and there my father was killed. When my mother heard that he had been there, you may be sure her own words came back to her. No body knew who killed my titther. But why not he as well as another ? Flesh and blood could not have made her believe that it was not he. - Just after that I was born, and then again my other took it into her head that I had come into world to revenge my father's death. There o great comfort in that thought, you may be sure ; sous soon as the war was over, they tried they gold to get My brother back. He was told that my father was dead, and had left a good estate; and that he was the heir at law; (for you know that my father died under the old law,) but it all would not do. He was a complete Indian, and had an Indian wife and children that he would not leave. But he had kind feelings for us, all, and sent us word to take the estate; for he wanted nothing but his rifle. " Well ! my mother died ; and I and a brother a little older than me, sold out and went to Ken- tucky. Where we settled was a dangerous frontier near the Ohio, and the Indians once or twice every year, would come over and strike at us. Then we would raise a party, and follow them away almost to the lakes ; and after we- got strong enough, we commonly kept a smart company ranging about on that side of the river. Sometimes we volunteered ; sometimes we were drafted ; sometimes one went ; sometimes another. One year my brother went, and had a fight with the Indians. Afterwards we heard that our wild brother was in that fight, and was badly wounded. The next year I went out, and we had a fight, and my poor brother was there again, and he was killed." He ceased speaking, and again sunk into a gloomy silence, which none of us were disposed to interrupt. At length he said, in a softened voice, "Thank God! I was, spared one thing. I never think of it, that it does not make the cold chills run over me. It was the night before the battle. We had been following hard upon the trail all day, and just before night we came up with them. But we did not let them see us, and lay back till they had camped for. the night. We, knew we -could find them in the dark by their fires. Sure enough we soon saw the light, and crawled towards it. The word was to attack at day light. In the meantime every man was tukeep his eye skinned, and his gun in his hand; and not to fire on any account till the word was given. But in this sort of business every man fights, more or less, on his own hook; and it' a fellow only kills an Indian, they never blame, him. There they were, all dead asleep, around their fire; and we standing looking at them, almost near enough to hear them snore. You may be sure we did not breathe loud. Well! while I was standing, off on one flank, watching them with all my eyes, up gets one, and stands right between me and the light. Up came My rifle to my face. It was against orders, but never had shot at an Indian, and how could I stand it? My hand was on the trigger, when the figure turned, and I saw the breasts of a woman. You may be sure I slid not shoot. It was my brother's daughter, as I afterwards learned." This story required no comment. [It admitted of none. The ideas it suggested was such as rea- son could neither condemn nor justify. We could only muse on it in silence. At lengthythe other stranger, who, like myself, had listened attentive- ly , said, " I too was once within an ace of shooting a woman." I started at this, and turned to reconsider the si maker. I had already scrutinized him pretty el osely, and had formed a judgment concerning im, which these words quite unsettled. The idea tl iat he had been familiar with scenes, where every n ian must make his hand guard his head, had never atered my mind. He was indeed formidably a rmed, carrying a brace of pistols in his belt, and a nether in his holsters. The handle of a dirk P eened through the ruffle of his shirt, and a rifle o n his shoulder completed his armament. I had een of course struck with an equipment so warlike, but attributed it to excess of caution. The r aildness and elegance of his manners had fixed im in my- mind, as one bred up in the scenes of r peaceful and polished life, where, in youth, he had teard so much of the perils of the country lie was r Low. traversing, as to suppose it unsafe to visit it vithout this load of weapons. I certainly had "'ever seen a man of more courteous and gentler nanlike demeanor; and though his countenance cave no token of one "acquainted with cold fear," 1 I had nevertheless, emphatically marked him as a -	Tian of peace. He was ,the oldest man in .company, hut deferential to all, accommodating, obliging, md, on all occasions, modestly postponing ;elf, even to such a boy as I was. He seemed low to have spoken from a wish to divert the [minful thoughts of our companion, and,.in answer to an inquiring look from me, went on with his story.	[ " It was nearly thirty years ago," said he, " I was travelling from Virginia through the wilderness of Kentucky, then much infested by Indians. I had one companion, [an active, spirited young man, and we were both well mounted and well armed. Vigilance alone was necessary to • our Safety, and as we had both served a regular apprenticeship to Indian warfare, we were not deficient in that. We soon overtook a company of moving families, who had united for safety. The convenience of the axes of the men, _in, making fires, and of the women in cooking, determined us to join them. We camped together every night ; and as we derived great advantage from the association,: we tried to requite it by our activity and diligence as scouts and flankers. We commonly rode some distance ahead, so as to give them time to prepare in case of attack ; depending on our own diligence and skill to guard against surprise Riding thus one day, a mile or two in advance, we were suddenly startled by an outcry from.behind, which was not to be mistaken. We immediately. drew up, and presently saw our party hurrying towards us, in great confusion and'alarm, whipping up their teams, and only stopping long enough to say that they were pursued.. The rear [ was therefore now- our post, and, waiting till they had all passed, we dismounted,—hid our horses, took trees, and awaited the enemy. I did not wait long, until I saw the head and shoulders of a figure above the undergrowth, rushing at full speed towards me. My rifle was at my cheek, and a steady aim at the advancing figure made me sure of my mark, when an opening in the brushwood showed me the dress of a female. She was the wife of one of the wretches who had just passed us, completely spent and sinking with fatigue: Had there been Indians she must have perished. As it was, her appearance showed the alarm to be false ; so I. took her up behind me, and we went quietly on, in purstiit of her dastard husband, to Whose protection I restored her."	- In speaking these last words, the face of the speaker underwent, for a moment, a change, w hich told more than his story. The tone of scornful irony too, which accompanied the word protection, gave a new face to his character. As I marked the slight flush of his pale and somewhat withered cheek, the flash of his light blue eye, the curl of his lip, and a peculiar clashing of his eye-teeth as he spoke; I thought I had rarely seen a man, with whom it might not be as safe to trifle. The day was now far spent; and as the sun descended, we had the satisfaction to observe that he sank behind a grove, that marked the course of a small branch of the Wabash, on the bank of which stood the house where we expected to find food and rest. None but a western traveller can understand the entire satisfaction with which the daintiest child of luxury learns to look forward to the rude bed and homely fare, which, await him, at the end of a hard day's ride, in the infant settlements. There is commonly a cabin of rough unhewn logs, containing one large room, where all the culinary operations of the family are performed, at the huge chimney around which the guests are ranged. The fastidious, who never wait to be hungry, may turn up their noses at the thought of being, ler an hour before hand, regaled with the steam of their future meal. But to the weary and sharp set, there is something highly refreshing to the spirits and stimulating to the appetite-. The dutch oven, well filled with biscuit, is no sooner discharged of them, than their place is occupied by sundry slices of bacon, which arc immediately followed by eggs, broken into the hissing lard. In the mean time, a pot of strong coffee is boiling on a corner of the hearth; the table is -covered with a coarse clean cloth ;- the butter and cream and honey are on it ; and supper is ready. "Then horn for horn they stretch and strive." It makes me hungry now to think of it; and I am tempted to take back my word and eat something, having just told- my wife I wanted no supper. But it will not do. I have not rode fifty miles to day, and my table is so trim and my room so snug that I have no appetite. But it is only in the first stage of a settlement, that these things are found. By and by, mine .host, having opened a larger farm, builds him a house, of frame-work or brick, the masonry and carpentry of which show the rude handy-work of himself and his sons. He now employs several hands, and the leavings of their dinner will do for the supper of any chance travellers in the evening. A round deep earthen dish, in which a bit of fat pork or lean salt beef, crowns a small mound of cold greens or turnips, with loaf bread baked a month ago, and a tin can of skimmed milk now form the travellers supper. It is vain to expostulate. Our host has no fear of competition. He has now located the whole point of wood land crossed by the road, and no one can come nearer to him, on either hand, than ten miles. Besides, he is now the' squire" of the neighborhood, with " eyes severe," and " fair round belly with fat bacon lined;" and why should not the daily food of a man of his consequence be good enough for a hungry traveller ? It was to a house of this latter description that we now came. No one came out to receive us. Why should they ? We took off our own baggage, and found our way into the house as we might. On entering, I was struck with the appearance of the party, as their figures glimmered through the mingled lights of a dull window and a dim fire. Each individual, though seated, (and no man moved or bad us welcome) wore his hat, of sha- dowy dimensions ; a sort of family resemblance, both in cut and color, ran through the dresses of all ; and a like resemblance in complexion and cast of countenance marked all but one. This one, as we afterwards found, was the master of the mansion, a man of massive frame, and fat withal, but whose fUll cheeks, instead of the ruddy glow of health, were overcast with an ashy, dusky, money-loving hue. In the appearance of all the rest there was something ascetic and mortified. But landlord and guest wore all one common expression of ostentatious humility and ill-disguised self-complaeency, which so often characterizes those new sects, that think they have just made some important digeoveries in religion. Mine host was, as it proved; the Gaius of such a church, and his guests were preachers of the same denomination. I have forgotten the name ; but they were not Quakers. I have been since reminded of them,. on reading the description of the company Julian Peveril found at Bridgnorth's. When we entered, our landlord was talking in a dull, plodding strain, and in a sort of solemn protecting tone, to his respectfully attentive.guests. Our appearance made no interruption in his discourse ; and 'lie went on, addressing himself mainly to a raw looking youth, whose wrists and ankles seemed to have grown out of his sleeves and pantaloons since they were made. Where the light, which this young man was now thought worthy to diffuse, had broken in upon his own mind, I did not learn, but I presently discovered thathe came from " a little east of sunrise," and had a curiosity as lively as my own, concerning the legends of the country. " I guess brother P—," said he, "you have been so long in these parts, that it must have been right scary times when you first came here," " Well ! I cannot say," replied the other, " that there has been much danger in this country, since I caine here. But if there was, it was nothing new to me. I was used to all that in Old Ken-tuck, thirty years ago." " I should like," said the youth, " to hear something of your early adventures. I marvel that we should find any satisfaction in turning from the contemplation of God's peace, to listen to tales of blood and slaughter. But so it is. The old Adam will have .a hankering after the things of this world." " Well !" replied our host, " I have nothing very particular to tell. The scalping of three Indians, is all I have to brag of. And as to danger; ex- cept having the bark knocked off of my tree into my eyes, by a bullet, I . do not know that I was ever in any mighty danger, but once." " And when was that?" " Well! It was when we were moving out along the wilderness road. You see it was mighty tick- lish times; so a dozen families of us started toge- ther, and we had regular guards, and scouts, and flankers, just like an army. The second day, after we left Cumberland rival', a couple of young fel- lows joined us, one by the name of Jones, and I do not remember the other's name. I suppose they had been living. somewhere in Old Virginia, where they had plenty of slaves to wait on them ; and it went hard with them to make their own fires, and cook their own victuals; so they were glad enough to fall in with us, and have us and our women to tvork and cook for them. But a man was a cash article there; and they both had fine horses and good guns; and, to hear them talk, (especially that fellow Jones,) you would have thought, two or three Indians before breakfast, would not have been a mouthful to them. We did not think much of them, but we told them, if they would take their turn in scouting and guarding, they were welcome to join us." At this moment, our landlady, who was busy in a sort of shed, which adjoined the room we sat in, and served as a kitchen, entered, and stopping for a moment, heard what was passing. She was a good-looking woman, of about forty-five, with a meek subdued and broken hearted cast of countenance. I saw her look at her husband, and as she listened, her face assumed an expression of timid e: postulation, mixed with that sort of wonderment, tv ith which we regard a thing utterly unaccounta- b le, but which use has rendered familiar. Her lord and master caught the look, and bend7 it ig his shaggy brow, said, "1 guess the men will Al ant their supper, by the time they get it." She understood the hint, and stole away rebuked; u tiering unconsciously, in a loud sigh, the long h oarded breath which she had held all the time she li stened. Her manner was not intended to attract n otice ; but there was something in it, which disp osed me to receive her husband's tale with some g rains of allowance. He went on thus : " The day we expected to get to the crab-orcha rd, it was their turn to bring up' the rear. By ood rights, they ought to have been a quarter of, a mile or so behind us ; and I suppose they were ; v Then, all of a sudden, we heard the crack of a r ifle, and here they come, right through us, and a way they went. I looked round for my woman a nd I could not see her. The poor creature was a I it& behind, and thought there was no danger, be- c ause we all depended on them two fire eaters in t be rear, to take care of stragglers. But when t hey ran off, you see, there was nobody between I er and the Indians; and the first thing I saw, was her, running for dear life, and they after her. I s et my triggers, and fixed myself to stop one of t hem ; and just then, her foot caught in a grape line, and down she came. I let drive at the fore' nost, and dropped him ; but the other one ran right on. My gun was empty ; and I had no ( ;bailee but to put. in, and try the butt of it. But 1: was not quite fast enough. He was upon her, ;	had his hand in her,hair; and it was a mercy 1f God, lie did not tomahawk her at once. He had llenty of time for that ;—but he was too keen after Llie scalp ; and, just as he was getting hold of his knife, I fetched him a clip that settled him. Just Olen, I heard a crack or two, and, a ball whistled mighty near me; but, by this time, some of Our party had rallied, and took trees ; and that brought . the Indians to a stand. So I put my wife behind a tree, and got one more crack at them ; and then they, broke and run. :That was the only time I ever thought myself in any real danger, and that was all along of. that Jones and the other fellow. But they made tracks for the settlement." "Have you never seen. Jones since?" said the mild voice of the courteous gentleman I have mentioned. CC No; I never have; and it's. well for him ; though, bless the Lord! I hope I could find in my heart now to forgive him. But if I had ever come across him, before I met with you, brother B—;". (addressing a grave senior of the party who received the compliment with impenetrable gravity ;) "I guess it would not have been so well for him." " Do you think you would know him again, if you were to see him?" said my companion. " It's a long time ago," said he, " but I think I should. He was a mighty fierce little fellow, and had a monstrous blustering way of talking." " Was he any thing like me?" said the stranger, in a low but hissing tone. - The man started, and so did we-all, and gazed on the querist. In my life, I never saw such a change in any human face. The pale cheek was flushed, the calm eye glowed with intolerable fierceness, and every feature worked with loathing. But he commanded his voice, though the curl of his lip disclosed the full length of one eye tooth, and he again said, " look at me. Am not I the man ?" " i do not know that you are," replied the other dogg6dly, and trying in vain to lift his eye to that which glared upon him. "I do not know that you are?" muttered he. " -Where is lie? where is he," screamed a female voice; " let me see him. I'll know him, bless his heart! I'll know him any where in the world." Saying this, our landlady rushed into the circle, and stood among us, while we all rose to our feet: She looked eagerly around. Her eye rested a moment on the stranger's face; and in the next instant her arms were about his neck, and her head on his bosom, where she shed a torrent of tears. I need not acid, that the subject of the Landlord's tale, was the very incident which my companion had related on the road. He soon made his escape, cowed and chop-fallen ; and the poor woman bustled about,-to give us the best the house afforded, occasionally wiping her eyes, or stopping for a moment to gaze mutely and sadly.on the generous stranger, who had protected her when deserted by him who lay in her bosom. - The grave brethren looked, as became theM, quite scandalized, at this strange scene. It was therefore promptly explained to them ; but the explanation dissipated nothing of the gloom of their countenances. Their- manner to the- poor woman was still cold and displeased, and they seemed to forget her husband's &tilt, in their horror at hav-, ing seen her .throw herself into the arms of a stranger. • For my part, I thought the case of the good Samaritan in point, and could not help believing, that he who had decided that, would pronounce that her grateful -affection had been bestowed where it was due. LAW LECTURE AT WILLIAM AND MARY. A LECTURE on the Study of the Lew; being an Introduction to a course of lectures on that subject, In the College of William and Mary, by Beverley Tucker, Professor of Law.—Richmond: T. W. White. Nov. 1834. kr is impossible for a Virginian not to feel an interest in old William and Mary. Recollecting the many able men who have been nurtured within its walls, and signalized as lawyers, legislators and statesmen, we cannot but fed gratified tit etiery cubit in its behalf that promises to be of use. Front the time of Judge Semple's last appointment as Judge of the General Court, until the month of July, the law chair had remained vacnnt. A vacancy in so important a department condoling for so long a period, could not fail to be prejudicial to the institution. it was in vain that the other professorships Well) ribly fillc4. The circumstance of the lectures in the law department being suspended, made many fear that the other professorships would one by one share the same fitte---that this vacancy was but a precursor to others—that a failure to fill this would be followed by like failures hereafter--^and that in a few years the doors of this venerable pile would be closed. These inferences are strengthened by the fact, that very important professorship (die professorship of ma' theoretics) had formerly been permitted to remnin vncent for even a longer period than that which is the subject of these brief reflections. With such anticipations, it is no wonder that every class has latterly been characterized by the smallness of its numbers, The Board of Visiters, nt their meeting in July, resolved that the vacancy should continue no longer, and conferred the appointment of law professor upon Bever-Icy Tucker. Mr. Tucker is well known es a writer upon constitutional questions, and his appointment to the bench of another state, after it short residence in it, affords evidence. of the estimation in which his legal attainments were there held. The same professorship to which he is now appointed, was filled ninny years ago by his father SI. George Titelar, whose edition of Black. stone's Commentaries, and subsequent nppointment first in the state and then in the federal judicioryi have given him a reputation with members of the bur throughout the Union. The letter and answer which precede the introductory lecture of Professor Tucker, sufficiently explain the circumstances under which that lecture is published. YOUNG GENTLEMEN: I gladly avail myself of an established custom, to offer some remarks on the mutual relation into which we have just entered, and the studies which will occupy our attention during the ensuing course. This day is to you the commencement of the liteatilled with the College of William and Mary by the early recollections and warm affections of youth, I have nothing so much nt heart as it desire to be found worthy to aid in restoring that venerable Institution to all Its former prosperity and usefulness. Your approbation Is dour to me, us encouraging a hope that my efforts may not ho unavailing. If I shall be so fortunate as to send out Into the world but one more, to be added to the list of Illusirions [nen, who aro every whore found upholding, with generous, devoted and enlightened zeal, the free institudone Inherited from our Where, in their (rue spirit, I shall have my reward. If I can succeed in Impressing on my class limo conviction, that freedom has Its duties, as well us Its rights, and can only bo preserved by the faithful discharge of those duties; I shall have my reward. If I can do no more titan to furnish to the profession members devoted to its duties, and qualified to eustaht Its high character for intelligence and integrity, by diligence and fidelity even In Its humble et walka, I AIM still have my reward. in either ease !shall have. rendered valuable service, to you, to this venerable institution, to this scene or my earliest, 111111j11014 and best days, and to Virginia—my mother-1110 only country to which my heart line over owned allegiance, Fur as thy feet have wandered from her soil, my affections have always cleaved to her, and ns the fitithful inussulomn, In every clime, worships with ilia face towards the tomb of his prophet, so has my heart ever turned to her, alive to all her interests, jealous alter bettor, resentful of her wrongs, partaking In all her struggles, exulting In her triumplie, and mourning her defeats. May she again erect herself to her former proud attitude end walk before the all-then of liberty in the pathless desert where they now wander, as it "cloud by day, and it pillar of fire by night.lt For yourselves, gentlemen, find those wheat you represent, he pleased to accept may acknowiedgmems for the compliment Implied In your application. I would ask you to accept the Wt. pression of another sentiment, If I knew bowie express it. Returning to Williumeburg oiler an absence commencing In early life, the long and dreary Interval seems obliterated. I find myself remitted nt once to the scenes and to tho feelings of youth: It would seen) more tenure! to me to come among you as a companion limn as an Instructor. But this may not be much amiss. My business is with your heads, but lim road to them Is (brought the heart, and if 1 can only bring you to understand and reciprocate my feelings, (here will be nothing wanting to facilitate iho communication (Wally Instruction I rimy bo enpable of bestowing. ) remain, gentlemen, with high regard. your friend anti nhn. diem se revt sis(-nat. J. IV. Dem, John Ill:Waugh,	II. TUCKER. To lif T. French, and ChB. If. Kennedy.' most important tern of life. You have heretofore IVitliantiburg, October 37, 1934.	been engaged in studies, for the most part useful, Dear Sir:--The ettidentsof William and Mary, highly grad- fled by your able and eloquent address, delivered before them but sometimes merely ornamental or amusing. The this day, have held a special meeting, and by unanimous vote 111illti, it is true, Call hardly fail to improve, by the adopted the following resolution:	exertion necessary to the acquisition of knowledge. room on the 27th Inst.) That a committee lie appointed to ad. of any kind, even as aid athletic sports of the boy dress a note to Professor Tucker, far time purpose of expressing harden and prepare the body for tlin labors of the their admiration of the able and interesting lecture which ho line num. But, in many particulars, what you have this day delivered, Introductory to his course on law, and to . solicit the same for publication.	heretofore learned may be of little prectical value We hope for your assent to this request, and In performing in the business of life ; and your post heglects may this agreeable duty, we tender yott our sentiments of respect perhaps be attended with no loss of prosperity or and esteem. JNO. W. DEW,	CHAS. H. KENNEDY, WM, T. FRENCH,	JOHN MURDAU0111, Frofeasoe Tucker.	Committee. October 28, 1934. Gentlemen:—I acknowledge fire receipt of your polite note, and am happy to comply with the request which it conveys. -	_ ncseterd, (At a meeting of the students In the large lecture respectability in Altura. Some of you are probably acquainted with sciences of which others are ignorant; but are not for that reason any better `Prepared for the new course of studies on which you aro about to enter. Nor will such knowledge necessarily uflbrd its possessors any advantage at the bar, or in the senate, or on any of the arenas, where the interests of individuals and nations arc discussed, and the strifes of men decided. But the time is now past with you, young gentlemen, when you can lose a moment, or neglect an opportunity of improvement, without a lasting and irreparable detriment to yourselves. You this day put on the toga virilis, and enter on the business if life, This day you Commence those studies on which independence, prosperity, respectability, and the comfort and happiness of those who will be dearest to you, must depend. For, trust me, these things mainly depend on excellence in the profbssion or occupation, whatever it may be, which a man chooses as the business of his life. The humblest mechanic will derive more of all these good things from diligence and proficiency in his trade, than ho possibly can from any knowledge unconnected with it. - This, which is true of all occupations, is most emphatically true of that which you have chosen. To be eminent in our profession is to hold a place among the great ones of the earth ; and they, who devote themselves to it, have the rare advantage of treading the path which loads to the highest objects of honorable ambition, oven w Idle walking the round of daily duties, and providing for the tinily wants of private life. The history of our country is full of proof that the bar is the road to eminence ; and I beg you to remark how few of its members have attained to this eminence in public life, without having been first distinguished in the profession. To win its honors, and to wear thorn worthily, is to attain an elevation from which all other honors are accessible: but to turn aside disgusted with its labors, is to lose this vantage ground, and to sink again to the dead level of the common mass. You should therefore learn to look on the profeSsion of your choice, as the source from whence aro to flow all the comforts, the honors, and the happiness of life. Let it be as a talisman, in which, under God, you put your trust, assuring yourselves that whatever, you seek by means of it you W ill receive. I have the more naturally fallen into these remarks, as they are in some sort suggested, and are certainly justified by the history of this institution. If you trace back the lives of the men, who at this moment occupy the most enviable pre-eminence in your native state, you will find that they received the rudiments of their professional and political education at this venerable but decayed seminary. There are certainly distinguished members of the profession, and illUstrious mon out of the profession, to whom this remark does not apply. But when Virginia (Magna Farms Virant,) is called on to show her jewels, to whom does she more proudly point than to men who once occupied those very seats ; who hero received the first impulse in their career ; who hero commenced that generous strife for superiority which has placed them all so high. The subject of our researches, young gentlemen, will be the municipal law of Virginia. The text book which will be placed in your hands is the American edition of Blackstone's Commentaries, published thirty years ago by one of my predecessors in this chair.	You will readily believe that it would be my pride to walk, with filial reverence by the lights which he has given us, and that, in doing so, I should feel secure of escaping any.harsh animadversion from those to whom I am responsible, and who still cherish so favorable a recollection of his services. I shall certainly endeavor to avail myselfof this privilege ; though it may be occasionally necessary to assume a more perilous responsibility. A brief sketch of the plan which I propose to myself, will show you how fin I shall Ulm, and wherein, and why, I shall deviate from the path which he has traced. Municipal law is defined by Mr. Blackstone, " to be a rule of civil conduct prescribed by the supreme power of the state." By Justinian it is said, " Id pod Owe populus sibt jus constituit, vocatur fits ciuile :" which has been well rendered thus : " It is the system of rules of civil conduct which any state has ordained fOr itself." Whatever definition we adopt, we shall find that municipal law is distinguishable into four grand divisions, which may be properly designated by the 'Wowing description: 1. That which regulates the nature and form of the body politic ; which establishes the relation that each individual bears to it, and the rights and duties growing out of that relation, which determines the principles on which it. exercises authority over him ; and settles a system of jurisprudence by which it operates to protect and enforce right, and to redress and punish-wrong. 2. That which determines the relations of individual members of society to each other; which defines the rights growing out of that relation ; and regulates the right of property, anti such per-.. sonal rights as must subsist even in a state of nature. 3. That which defines the wrongs that may be done by one individual member of society to another, in prejudice of his rights, whether of person or property, and provides means for preventing or redressing such wrongs. 4. That which defines and denounces the wrongs which may be done by any individual member of society, in violation of the duties growing out of his relation to the body politic, and provides means for preventing and punishing such violation. The first of these divisions is treated by Mr. Blackstone in his first book, under the comprehensiVe head- of " The Rights of Persons." Under the same head ho includes so much of the second division as relates to such personal rights as must have belonged to man in a state of nature, and such as grow out of his relation to other individual members of society. Such are the relative rights of husband and wife, parent and child, guardian and ward, and master and servant—and the absolute rights, of personal liberty, and of' security to life, limb and reputation. These rights are obviously not the crea- tures of civil society, however they may be regulated and modified by municipal law. They in no wise depend on " the nature or form of the body politic ;" nor on " the relations. which individuals bear to it ;" nor on " the rights and duties growing out of that relation ;" nor on " the principles on which it exercises authority over individuals ;" nor on " the system of jurisprudence." As little indeed do they depend on " Llie rights of property," but they have much in common with them. Together with them, they collectively form the mass of " individual rights," as contra-distinguished from "political rights." Neither class derives its existence from civil society, although both are alike liable to be regulated by it, and the two together Iiirm the subject of almost all controversies between man and man. Now with rights in actual and peaceable enjoyment, law has nothing to do. 11 is controversy which calls it into action ; and as both this class of personal rights, and the rights of property, have the saute common origin—both subsisting by titles paramount to the constitutions of civil society ; as both are the ordinary subjects of controversy between individuals; and as these controversies arc all conducted according to similar forms, decided by the same tribu- nals, and adjusted by the like means,—it is found convenient to arrange them together in a course of instruction. Such I believe has always been the practice in this institution. Proposing to conform to it, I have thought it best, in the outset, to intimate this slight difference between this practice and Mr. Blackstone's arrangement. There is another particular in which Mr. Black-stone's order of instruction has been advantageously changed at this place. his is certainly the true philosophical arrangement of the subject. When we are told that "municipal law is a rule of civil conduct prescribed by the supreme power in the state," it is obvious to ask, " what is that supreme power, and whence comes its supremacy?" When we are told that it is " the system of rules of civil conduct, which the state has ordained for itself," the first inquiry is, " what is the state?" Thus whatever definition of municipal law we adopt, the subject of inquiry that meets us at the threshold is the Lex Legum ; the law which endues the municipal law itself with authority. If the individual to be instructed were one who had heretofore lived apart from law and government, yet capable (if such a thing were possible) of understanding the subject, it is here we ought to commence. To him it would - be indispensable to explain, in the first instance, the structure of the body politic ; to specify the rights surrendered by• individuals; and to set before him the equivalent privileges received in exchange. We too might be Supposed to require a like exposition before we would be prepared to submit to the severe restraints and harsh penalties of criminal law. But in regard to controversies between individuals we feel no such jealousies. In these, the law, acting but as an arbiter, indifferent between the parties, no question concerning its authority occurs to the mind. The readiness with which wo acquiesce in its decisions, is strikingly manifested in the fact, that the whole of England, Ireland and the United States aro, for the most part, governed by a law which has no voucher for its authority but this acquiescence. The same thing may be said of the authority of the civil law on the continent of Europe. It thus appears that the mind does not always require to be informed of the origin of the law which regulates and enforces, or protects individual rights, before it will condescend to inquire what are its behests. Prima facie it should be so; but being, in point of filet, born in the midst of law, habituated to it from our infancy, and accustomed to witness uniform I obedience to its authority on the part of those whom we were taught to obey, we learn to regard it as a thing in rerum watura, rather than of human invention ; a sort of moral atmosphere, which, like that we breathe, seems a very condition of our existence. There is therefore no inconvenience to be apprehended from taking up the subject in an inverted-,..„, order, treating first of individual rights, and reserving those that grow out of the relation of the citizen to the body politic, and the correlative ditties of that relation, for future inquiry. While there is nothing to be objected to this arrangement, there is much in favor of it. It is important that they who engage in the study of political law, should come to the task with minds prepared for it ; well stored with analogous infbrmalion, and sobered and subdued by the discipline of severe investigation. There is a simplicity in some views of government which is apt to betray the student into a premature belief that lie understands it thoroughly ; and then, measuring the value of his imagined acquirements, not by the labor that they have Cost him, l-ut by the dignity and importance of the subject, he becomes inflated, self-satisfied and untouchable ; resting in undoubting assurance on the accuracy and sufficiency of such bare outline as his instructor may have thought proper to place before him. But in those countries where the authority of government rests on a questionable title, they who are entrusted with the education of youth, may 'naturally wish to keep them from looking into it too narrowly. Hence it may be measure of policy with them, to introduce the stu-, dent, in the first place, to the study of political Jaw, in the hope of making on his raw and unpractiSed in prejudice of such rights, anti of the remedies for such wrongs. All these topics are embraced in the second and third division of municipal law, that I have laid before you. To these belong the most intricate and difficult questions in the science of law. In introducing you to the study of these, let me say, in the language of one from whom I am proud to quote, that, " I cannot flatter you with the assurance that your yoke is easy and your burden light.' I will not tell you that your path leads over gentle ascents and through 'flowery meads, where every new object entices us forward, and stimulates to perseverance. By no moans! The task you have undertaken is one of the most arduous ; the profession you have chosen one of the most laborious; the study you are about to pursue, one of the most difficult that can be conceived. But you have made your election. You have severed yourselves from the common herd of youth, who shrink from every thing that demands exertion and perseverance. You have chosen between the allurements of pleasure and the honors which await the disciples of wisdom, You yield to others to keep the noiseless te- nor of their way in inglorious ease. You have elected for yourselves the path that philosophers and moralists represent as leading, up a rugged as- cent, to the temple of. fame. It may be the lot of some of you to elevate yourselves by talents and unabating zeal, in the pursuit you have selected. But these distinguished honors are not to be borne away by the slothfid and inert. Nollo palma sine pulvere. He who would win the laurel, must encounter the sweat and toil of the arena. Nor will it suffice that lie occasionally presses onto the goal. mind, such an impression, as may secure his approbation of the existing order of things. The fiicul- ty of investigating legal questions, and forming legal opinions, may almost be regarded as an acquired filculty ; so that, in the earlier part of his researches, the student necessarily acquiesces in the doctrines which aro pronounced ex cathedra by his teacher, At this time he readily receives Opinions on trust; and if it he his interest to cherish Mein) or if ho is never called on in after life to reexamine them, he is apt to carry them with him to the grave. This is perhaps as it should be in England and other countries of Europe. Having no part in the government, it may be well enough that he should learn to sit down contented with this sort of enlightened ignorance, But with us the case is different. The authority of our governments is derived by a title that fears no investigation. We feel sure, that, the better it is understood, the more it. will be approved. It rests to on a charter conferring regulated and limited powers; and the well being of the country requires that the limitations and regulations he strictly observed. Now every man among us has his "place in the commonwealth." It is on the one hand, the duty of every man to aid in giving full effect to all legitimate acts of government; and on the other, to boar his part in restraining the exercise of all powers forbidden or not granted. Every man therefore owes it to his country to acquire a certain proficiency in constitutional law, so as to act understandingly, when called on to decide between an alleged violation of the constitution? and an imputed opposition to lawful authority. Such occasions are of daily occurrence. Scarcely a day has passed, since the adoption of the federal consti- ' If he slackens in his efforts he must lose ground. tution, when some question of this sort has not been `Po roll a Sysiphean stone to an exalted eminence. before the public. Such is the effect of that iinptionce or restraint natural to man. So prompt are the people to become restive under laws of clues, Boilable authority,and so apt are rulers to strain at the curb of constitutional limitations, that one or the other, or both of those spectacles, is almost always before us. He who gives back loses what his strength had gained ; and sinking under the toil his own indolence increases, lvill at length give up his unsteady efforts in despair."—l. T. C. Introduction, p. vi. I can add nothing to these striking remarks but my testimony to their truth. There is, perhaps, no study that tasks the powers of the mind more se- When you come then1 young gentlemen, to the wanly than that of law. In it, as in the study of study of political and constitutional law, you will mathematics, nothing is learned at all that is not . find it no small advantage to have been engaged learned perfectly ; and a careless perusal of Eufor some months before in studies of a similar elm, meter. 'Dm opinions you will then form will be properly your own, I may not be so successful as I might wish, in impressing you with those I entertain ; but I shall ho more gratified to find you prepared to " give a reason for the faith that is in you," whatever that fhith may he, than to hear you rehearse, by rote, any political catechism that I could devise. I shall accordingly postpone any remarks on constitutional and political law, until your minds have been exorcised and hardened by the severe training they will undergo in the study of the private rights of individuals, of wrongs done clid's elements would not bo more unprofitable, than that of n treatise on the laws of property. Nor will a more effort of memory be of more avail in the one case than in the other. Both must be remembered by being understood; by being through the exorcise of intense thought, incorporated as it were into the very texture of the mind. To this end its powers must be fully and faithfully exerted. As, in lifting at a weight, you do but throw away your labor, until you man yourself to the exertion of the full measure of strength necessary to raise it ; so, in this study, you may assure yourselves that all you have done is of no avail, if you pass from any topic without thoroughly understanding characterized as being "less an institute of law, it. And let no man persuade you that genius can than a methadical guide or elementary work adapsupply the place of this exertion. Genius does not ted to lite commencement of a course of study. He so manifest itself. The secret of its wonderful treats most subjects in a manner too general and achievements is in the energy which it inspires. cursory to give the student an adequate known is because its prompting .sting, like the sharp ledge of them. After having pursued his beautigoad of necessity, urges to herculean effort, that it ful nrrangement, ho is obliged to seek elsewhere fbr irther details, A tier having learnt the advanis seen to accomplish herculean tasks. He is de- lt ceived who fancies himself a favbred child of ge, tap of system, he is almost at the threshold of the nius, unless he finds his highest enjoyment in in- science, turned back without a guide, to grope tellectual exercise. Ile should go to the toil of among the mazy volumes of our crowded libraries, thought like the champion to the lists, seeking in This cannot be right. If system is of advantage the very cerkoahris gaudia the rich reward of all at all, it is of advantage throughout. Were it his labors.	practicable, it would ho better for the student to There may be something startling, I fear, in this have a single work, which embracing the whole exhibition of the difficulties that lie befbre you, and subject, should properly arrange every principle it is proper to encourage you by the assurance that and every case essential to be known preparatory by strenuous effort they may be certainly over- to his stepping on the arena. Much, very much come. Remember too that this effort will be pain- indeed, would still be left to be explored in the ful only in the outset. The mind, like the body, course of his professional career, independent of the soon inures itself to toil, and wears oil' the soreness apices juris, which the most vigorous and persoverconsequent on its first labors. When this is done, ing alone can hope to attain,"--Tucker's Common-the task becomes interesting in proportion to its levy, Introduction, p. 4. difficulty, and subjects which are understood with-	The justice of those remarks none can deny. It out effort, and which do not excite the mind to might be thought unbecoming in me to say how thought, seem flat and insipid.	much the writer from whom I quote them has done But lest the student should falter and give back to supply such a work as ho describes. Yet I can-in his earlier struggles, it is the duty of the teacher not suffer any feeling of delicacy to restrain me from to afford him such aids as he can. This is mainly the duty of recommending that work to your at-to be done by means of such an analysis and in.- tentive perusal. I shall eagerly, too, avail myself rangoment of the subject as may prevent confu- of his permission to make frequent use of it, as I sion, and consequent perplexity and discourage- know of no book which so well supplies the net- .. ment.	cossary details to parts of the subject of which Mr. There are two sorts of analysis, each proper in Blackstone has given only loose and unprofitable its place. The one philosophical, by which the dif- sketches. It is to be lamented that in doing thin tbrent parts of a subject are so arranged, as to he has so strictly .bound himself to the arrange,. exhibit, in distinct groups those things that depend went of that writer. That arrangement, as I have on the same or'like principles, and such as are remarked, imposed on Mr. Blackstone the nocosmarked by characteristic points of resemblance; sity of being occasionally loose and superficial. For giving a sort of honorary precedence to the most. want 'of one more strictly logical, the Virginia important. The other sort of analysis may be Commentator often finds it impossible to go into termed logical. It is that method by which dif- the necessary detail, without anticipating matters ferent propositions are so arranged, as that no one which properly belong to subsequent parts of his of them shall over be brought under considera- treatise ; and too often, where this is impracticable, tion, until all others which may be necessary to topics and terms aro introduced, the explanation of the right understanding of that one, have been es- which is, perhaps, deferred to the next volume. tablished and explained. Of this last description	An instance will illustrate my meaning:—Mr, are Euclid's elements, in which it is interesting to Blackstone classes remedies for private wrongs, observe that no one proposition could with proprie- thus ; ((first, that which is obtained by the mere act ty be made to change its place ; each one depend- of the parties themselves; secondly, that which is ing for its demonstration, directly or indirectly, effected by the mere act and operation of law; upon all that have gone before.	and thirdly, that which arises from suit or actian, Blackstone's Commentaries may be cited as an in courts." Now, it probably occurred to him, example of philosophical analysis, He has indeed that he could not go into details on the two first of - been careful to avoid perplexing his reader, through those three heads, without presenting ideas which the want of a strictly logical arrangement, by deal- would be unintelligible to any who had not already ing chiefly in generalities, and never deScending to studied the third. In striving to avoid this, he has such particulars as might be unintelligible for want touched so lightly upon the other two, that his roof a knowledge of matters not yet treated of This marks on the important subjects of distress and ac- I take to be the reason why his work has been cords, which come under the first head, leave the student nearly as ignorant as they found him. For this there was no real necessity, as a knowledge of the two first heads is by no means necessary, or indeed at all conducive to the right understanding of the third. Had the pride of philosophical analysis, and symmetry of arrangement, been sacrificed to the laws of logic and reason, there was nothing to forbid the introduction of treatises on these Mi.:. portant topics, as copious and elaborate as those supplied by the diligence and research of the Virginia Commentator. The manner in which this has been done, has made it manifest how unfavorable the arrangement of Mr. Blackstone sometimes is to amplification and minuteness. The essays of the President of the Court of A ppeals on distresses and accords, leave nothing to be desired. Yet no one can read them profitably without having first studied the law of remedies by suit or action. These, and some other instances of the same sort, have led me to this determination. Wishing to avail mysell'of the labors of the Virginia Commentator, without losing the benefit of Mr. Blackstone's analysis, I propose to preserve the latter, but to make occasional changes in his arrangement, gobstituting one more logical, though perhaps less philosophical. This, and the postponement of the study of political law, are the only liberties I propose to take. The fourth division, which relates to crimes and punishments, will be the last considered. This Will be done not only in a spirit, of conformity to Mr. Blackstone's plan, but also because one of the most important branches of criminal law has reference to an offence of which no just idea can be formed without a previous and diligent study of the Constitution and of the science of' government. This last mentioned subject, young gentlemen, I should perhaps pass over but lightly, were I free to do so, contenting myself with a passing allusion to its connexion with the studraf the law, and the - encouragement you should derive from the honorable rewards that await distinguished merit in our profession. But this is not a mere school of professional education, and it is made my duty, by the statutes of the College, to lecture especially on the constitution of this state and of the U n itedStates. In the discharge of this duty it may be necessary to present views more important to the statesman, than to the mere practitioner. When I think or the difficulty and high responsibility attending this part of my task, I would gladly escape from it; but considerations of its importance and of the benefit to the best interests of our country which has heretofore resulted from its faithful execution, come in aid of a sense of duty, and determine me to meet it firmly and perform it zealously. The mind of the student of law is the grouncl in which correct constitutional opinions and sound maxims of political law should be implanted. The study of the common law involves the study of all the rights which belong to man in a state of society. The history of the common law is a history of the occasional invasions of these rights, of the strug- gles in which such invasions have been repelled, and of the securities provided to guard against their recurrence. A mind thoroughly acquainted with the nature and importance of the writ of habeas rorpas, and the trial by jury, and rightly understanding the indestructible character of the right of private property, will hardly fail to be awake to any attack which may be atmed at liberty from any quarter. Hence liberty finds in the students of the law a sort of body guard. Their nrofessional apprenticeship serves as a civil polyteelhilc school, where they are taught the use of weapons to be wielded in her defbnce. The history of our coun- try from the first dawning. of the revolution is full of proofs and examples of this. The clear view of the rights of the colonies which led to the Decla- ration of Independence, was one which hardly any but lawyers could have taken, and of the accuracy of which none but lawyers could have been sure. It was from them the ball of the revolution received its first impulse, and under their guidance it was conducted to the goal. Some few others were placed forward by circumstances; but they soon fell back, or found their proper place of service in the field; leaving the great cause to be managed by those whose studies qualified them to know where to insist, and where to concede; when to ward, and when to strike. The state papers emanating from the first congress will, accordingly, be found worthy to be compared with the ablest productions of the kind recorded in history ; displaying an ability, temper, and address, which prepares the reader to be told that a large majority of the members of that body were lawyers. In Mr. Blackstone's introductory lecture are some remarks on the importance of the study of the law to English gentlemen, strictly applicable to this view of the subject. " It is," says he, " per- fectly amazing, that there should be ne other slate of life, no other occupation, art, or science, in which some method of instruction is not looked upon as necessary, except only the science of legislation, the noblest and most difficult of any. Apprenticeships are hold necessary to almost every art, com- mercial or 'mechanical : a long course of reading and study must forth the divine, the physician, and the practical professor of the laws : but every man of superior fortune thinks himself born, a legislator. Yet Tully was of a different opinion : it is necessary,' says he, for a senator to be thoroughly acquainted with the constitution ; and this,' ho declares, is a knowledge of the most extensive na- ture; a matter of science, of diligence, of reflection.; without which no senator can possibly be lit for his office.' " If the part in the government allotted to the people of 'England renders this admonition im- though it should fall on the head of only one Vier dim? It would be easy to point to instances in which we all believe that majorities have done great wrong ; and that under such wrongs we have suffered and are still suffering we all know. But where is the check OR such abuse of power? Constitutional authority and physical force are. both on the same side, and if the wisdom, and justice of those who wield both does not freely afford redress; there are no means of enforcing it. " There is no sanction to any contract against the will of preva- lent power."	• The justice of these ideas is recognized in the forms of all our governments. The limitations on the powers of congress and the state legislatures, are all predicated on the certain truth " that majorities may find or imagine an interest iii doing wrong." Hence there are many things which cannot be lawfully done by a bare majority ; and many more, which no majority, however great, is authorised to do. Two-thirds of the senate must concur in a sentence of impeachment. The life and property of an individual cannot be taken away but by the unanimous voice of his triers; and all the branches of all our governments collectively cannot lawfully enact a bill of attainder, or an ex post facto statute. But though such acts are forbidden by the constitution, they may nevertheless be passed, and judges may be found to enfince them, if those holding legislative and judicial offices shall be so minded. The constituents, too, of a majority of the legislature may approve and demand such acts. W hero then is the security that such things will not be done? -Where can it be but in the enlightened sense of justice and right in the constituent body ? I am not sure that such restraints on the powers of public functionaries are not even more necessary in a republican government than in any other. A king can scarcely have a personal interest in ruining one portion of his dominions for the benefit of the rest, and he would not dare to ruin the whole, while a spark of intelligence and spirit remained among the people. But in a republic, whenever the inclination and the power to do such a wrong concur, the very nature of the case secures the rulers from all fear of personal consequences, The majority is with them. Their own constituents are with them. To these is their first duty ; and shall they hesitate to do that which is to benefit their constituents, out of tenderness to those who are not their constituents? Wo know how such questions are answered, when the occasion is one where a fixed majority have a fixed interest in the proposed wrong. Is not this the reason why legislative encroachment so much disposes men to acquiesce in executive usurpation ? Is it not this, which, when the barriers of constitutional restraint are seen to fall, drives minorities, as by a sort of portant to them, how much more important must it be to us, who aro in theory and in fact our own rulers. Not only is every office accessible to each one of us ; but each, even in private life, as soon as be puts on manhood, assumes a " place in the commonwealth!' In practice, as in theory, the SOVEREIGNTY .OF Tun STATE is in us. Born to the purple, the duties of that high destiny attach upon us at our birth ; and unless we qualify our- selves to discharge tilM11,WC must cease to reproach the ignorance and folly, the passion and presump- tion, which so often disgrace the sovereigns of the old world, and heap wretchedness and ruin on their subjects. The same causes will have the like elThcts here as there. Power does not imply wisdom or justice, whether in the hands of the few or the many : and it is only by the diligent study of our duties in this important Sill i01) that we can qualify ourselves so to administer its iiinctions, as to save the free institutions inherited from our fathers, from the seine reproach which the testimony of history fixes upon all other governments. Not only is this true in reference to us as well as to the kings of the, earth, but it is More em- phatically true of' us than of them. Whatever be their theory of sovereignty, and however they may prate about divine right, they all know, and feel, that, after all, they are but kings by sufferance. They may talk of absolute sovereignty, and claim for government that sort of omnipotence which is said to reside in the British parliament. But, after all, they know and feel, that there is much they cannot do, because there is much they dare not do. The course of events now passing in England is full of proof of this. We have just seen that same omnipotent parliament, new-modelling itself to suit the wishes of the people. This act indeed, was itself an exertion of this pretended omnipotence, but wisely and discreetly exercised, in surrendering power. It was certainly done with a very bad grace; and at this moment we see that body anxiously watching the temper of the multitude, and adapting its measures, not to the views of its members, not even to the views of the constituent body, but to the real or supposed interests of the great unrepresented mass. Such is the check, which in spite of all positive institutions, the physical force of numbers, however degraded, and, professedly, disregarded, must exercise over their rulers; and in this check, they find a motive • to justice, forbearance, and circumspection, which, in a measure, restrains the abuse of power. But may not we, the sovereign citizens of these states, abuse power too? When men are numerous and "strong enough to set their duties at de. fiance, do they cease to bo duties any longer?" Does that which would be unjust as the act of ninety-nine, become just, as being the act of an hundred? Is it in the power of numbers to alter the nature of things, and to justify oppression, fatal instinct, to seek shelter under the arm of a common, master, from the all pervading tyranny of majorities exercising the power of universal legislation? The wrongs of America were the act of' the parliament of England) goaded on by the people. It was they who claimed a right to legislate in all things for the colonies. It was they who demanded a revenue from America ; and the colonies, eagerly looking to the crown for protection, maintained an unshaken loyalty, until the king was seen to take part with their oppressors. The wrongs of Ireland are the act of the people of England. Ireland is the rival of England in agriculture, manufactures and commerce ; and every concession to the Ibrmer, seems to the multitude to be something taken from the prosperity of the latter.. But the representation of Ireland in parliament is to that of England as one to five ; and lvlion the Irish people cry to parliament for redress, they are answered as all appeals from minorities are answered by the representatives of majorities. But how would they be answered if the representative and constituent bodies were both thoroughly instructed in the sacred character and paramount authority and importance of the duties which belong to the high function of sovereignty ? We justly deny and deride the divine right of kings; and we assert and maintain the divine right of the people to self' government. And it is a divine right. It is a corollary from the right and duty to fulfil the purposes of our being, which accompany each one of us into the world. The right and the duty both come froM the author of that being. He imposes the one when he gives the other, and thus fixes on us a responsibility Avhich clings to us through life. We deceive our- selves if we think to got rid of any portion of this responsibility by entering into partnership with others, each-One of whom brings into the concern the same rights, the same duties, and the same responsibilities ;—noither more nor loss than our- selves. We do but multiply, and divide again by the same number. Each receives, by way of dividend, the same amount of right, duty, and respon- sibility that he carried into the common stock. Of so high a nature are these, and so vast are the interests with which they are connected, that it has been truly said, that, whether we mount the hustings or go to the polls, wo may well tremble to give or to receive the power which is there con- ferred.	. Gentlemen ; if these ideas be just, how important is the duty imposed on me by that statute of the college which requires me to lecture on consti- tutional law !. How desirable is it that there should be every whore schools, in which the youth of our country should be thoroughly imbued with correct opinions and just sentiments on this subject ! It was Agesilnus, I think, who said that "the business of education was to prepare the boy for the duties of the man." How pre-eminently important, then, must be that branch of education which is to qualify him to perform this highest of all social duties, and to bear worthily his part in that relation which has been characterized as "a partnership in all science, in all art, in every virtue, and in all perfection ; a partnership, not only between those who are living, but between those who are living, those who are dead, and those who are yet to be horn." These striking words, which are from the pen of the celebrated Edmund Burke, call to mind the high testimony which he has borne in favor of the study of the law, as a school of political rights. After having acted an important part in procuring the repeal of the stamp act, he made his last effort in favor of the rights of the colonies, in March, 1775. On that occasion, laboring to dissuade the British parliament from pushing America to extremities, he descanted on the love of freedom, which he pronounced to be the predominating feature in the character of our fathers. The prevalence of this passion he ascribed to a variety of causes, none more powerful than the number of lawyers, and the familiarity of the people with the principles of the common law. His ideas I will give you in his own words, for it is only in his own words that his ideas ever can be fittingly expressed. Ile says, " Iii no country perhaps in the world is the law so general a study. The profession itself is numerous and powerful; and in most provinces it takes the lead. The greater number of the deputies sent to the congress wore lawyers. But all who read, and most do read, endeavor to obtain some smattering in that science. * * * * * This study renders men acute, inquisitive, dexterous, prompt in attack, ready in defence, full of resources. In other countries, the people, more simple, and of a loss mercurial cast, judge of an ill principle in government only by an actual grievance; here they anticipate the evil, and judge of the pressure of the grievance by the badness of the principle. They augur misgovernment at a distance, and snuff the approach of tyranny in every tainted breeze.' Such, young gentlemen, is the important and useful influence which the study of our profession enables its members to exert. But if, instead of preparing their minds by this study, the very men to whom the people look up for light, do but provide themselves with a few set phrases contrived to flatter and cajole them, what but evil can come of it? "The people can do no wrong." Why ! this is but what all sovereigns hear from their flatterers. In one sense, it is indeed true of both, for there is no human tribunal before which either king or people can bo arraigned, But neither can make right and wrong change places and natures. " Vox populi, vox Dei." " It is the voice of God." So said the Jews 'of the impious Herod. But (ho us. We receive no accusation but from the con-judgments of the insulted Deity showed how more science of the accused. His honor is the only a worm he was; and his judgments are not limited witness to which we appeal; and should he be to kings, nor withheld by numbers. We may pre- even capable of prevarication or falsehood, we serve all the outward forms of freedom, the checks admit no proof of the fact. But I beg you to oband balances of the constitution may remain to all servo, that in this cautious and forbearing spirit of appearance undisturbed, and yet ho who can " curse our legislation, you have not only proof that we our blessings" may give us over to all the evils of have no disposition to harass you with unreasonadespotism, if we do not "lay to heart" the high ble.requiremenfs; but a pledge that such reguladuties of that freedom wherewith ho has made us lions as we have found it necessary to make, will free.	be enforced, If we did not mean to execute our I am sensible, young gentlemen, that, to many, laws, it might do little harm to have them minute these ideas will not bo acceptable. And for an oh- and much in detail on paper. It is because we do vious reason. " "Wolflike well enough," it is said, mean to enforce them that wo are cautious to re" to hear of their power, but have an extreme dis- quire nothing which may not be exacted without relish to be told of their duties," Yet in a govern-. tyranny or oppression, without degrading our-meat of equal rights, these are strictly correlative. selves or dishonoring you. The rights of each individual are the exact men-	The effect of this system, in inspiring a high and sure of the duties which others owe to him, and of scrupulous sense of honor, and a scorn of all discourse, of those he owes to others. This is so ob- ingenuous artifice, has been ascertained by long viously true, that it needs but be stated, to be re- experience, and redounds to the praise of its au-cognized at once as a man recognizes his face in thors. That it has not secured a regular discharge the glass. But ha " goeth his way, and straight- of all academical duties, or prevented the disorders way forgotten' what manner of man he was." Let which characterize the wildness of youth, is known not us do likewise,	and lamented. But we believe and know, that ho But there is another reason why many will hear who cannot be held to his duty, but by base and with impatience of the difficulties attendant on the slavish motives, can never do honor to his in-proper discharge of duties, which are too often structers ; while wo are equally sure that such a made the low sport of a holiday revel. None can system as keeps up a sense of responsibility to deny the truth and justice of the remarks already society at large, is most conducive to high ex-quoted from Mr. Blackstone ; but few, I fear, are cellence. We think it right, therefore, to adapt willing to bring them home, and to acknowledge our discipline to those from whom excellence may the necessity of such severe preparation to qualify be expected, rather than to those from whom medithemselves to exercise the franchises of a citizen. ocrity may barely be hoped. Such a system is Let ate hope, young gentlemen, that you will view valuable too, as forming a sort of middle term bathe matter in a different light, and go to your task ' tween the restraints of pupilage and the perfect with the more cheerfulness, from Mal assurance freedom and independence of manhood: Exporithat you will thus be qualified to derive a blessing once shows that there is a time of life, when the to yourselves and to your country, from the dis- now hem spirit of independence, and the prurierect and conscientious exercise of a privilege, once of incipient manhood will not be repressed, which others, from a want of correct information They will break out in the airs or in the graces and just sentiments, so often pervert to the injury of manhood. Between these we have to choose. of both,	The youth of' eighteen treated as a boy, exhibits Before I conclude, give mo leave to offer a few the former. Treated as a man, belays aside those remarks on a subject in which every member of forever, and displays. the latter. This system is the faculty has an equal and common interest. If thus believed to afford the best security against there ho any thing by which the University of such offences as stain the name of the porpetraWilliam and Mary has been advantageously dis- tor. Of such our records.bear no trace ; nor is tinguished, it is the liberal and magnanimous cha- there, perhaps, a single individual of all who have racier of its discipline. It has been the study of matriculated here, that would blush to moot any of its professors to cultivate at the same time, the his old associates in this school of honor. intellect, the principles, and the deportment of the	May we not hope then, young gentlemen, when student, laboring with equal diligence to infuse so much is trusted to your magnanimity, that the the spirit of the scholar and the spirit of the gen- dependence will not fail us ? May wo not hope, tleman. He comes to us as a gentleman. As when we are seen anxious to make our relation, such we receive and treat him, and resolutely re- not only a source of profit, but of satisfaction to fuse to know him in any other character. He is you, that you will not wantonly make it a source not harassed with potty regulations ; he is not in- of uneasiness and vexation to us? 1 persuade and annoyed by impertinent surveillance. self that you, at least, commence your studies with Spies and informers have, no countenance amonff such dispositions as we desire. If this be so, there is one short rule by which you may surely carry thorn into died. " Give diligent ellentio-v In your studies." This is the best security against all unpleasant collision with your teachers, and against that weariness of spirit which seeks relief in excess or mischief. It carries with it time present happiness, which arises front a consciousness of well doing ; it supplies that knowledge which encourages to farther researches, and renders study a pleasure; it establishes habits of application, the value of which will be felt in all the future business of life; and lays the foundation of that intellectual superiority by which you hope to prosper in the world, and to be distinguished from the ignoble multitude who live but to die and be forgotten. Williamsburg, October 27, 1834. For the Southern Literary Messenger. NOTE! TO BLACKSTONE'S COMMENTARIES) Vol.. I. PAGE 423. Being the Substance of Remarks on the Subject of Domes tic Slavery, delivered to the Law Class of Trillium ant Nary College, December 2d, 1834. Tins subject is ton interesting to be passed in silence. The time too is rife with proofs, that unless we mem tamely to surrender a most important interest, we mus hold ourselves always on the nlert to defend it with tongue and pen. The short and compendious argument of the commentator, and his confident and peremptory judgment, seem to place us in the condition of convicted delloquenta, and hardly to leave us Ihe poor privilege of saying one word why sentence should not be passed upon us, And yet.I hope to show, that this argument, BO specious, is not loss superficial, and that the conclusion, so promptly reached, has been attained by overlooking the most important. considerations involved in the subject. It was natural, and it was right, that Mr. Blnckston should manifest a zeal for the institutions of his own country, disposing him to excuse what might be amiss, to vindicate what might be questionable, and to place in the highest relief and in the most favorable light whatever is praiseworthy. But while I acknowledge this, I cannot allow to him, and them who think with him, n monopoly of this pious reverence for the institutions of their forefathers. I would rather follow their example, and, cherishing this sentiment so essential to the preservation of every thing that is valuable, would ask, on behalf of it, the like indulgence to what may be urged in &Innen of domestic slavery. shall not stop to show (what is incontestibly true) that it has done more to elevate a degraded race in the scale of humanity ; to tame the savage; to civilize the barbarous; to sullen the ferocious; to enlighten the ignevem. ; and to spread the blessings of christienity among the heathen, than all the missionaries that philanthropy and religion have ever sent forth. ''Phis would he no vindication, for he who can make the wrath of man to praise him; who can overrule evil, and make it an instrument of good, might have made it conducive to these ends, however wicked in itself it might be. " Be it a spirit of health, or goblin damned," on his errand it has gene forth. " Be its intents wicked or charitable," it is his instrument, in his hands, doing his work, When that is done, and not till then, it will cease, as will ell things else, when their appointed course is run, and their appointed end fulfilled. It is hardly necessary to expose the sophistry by which Mr. Blackstone affects to prove, that slavery cannot have had is lawful origin. We do not pretend to trace our title to its source. We have no call to sit in judgment between the conquered African and his conqueror. our	rest our defence on principles which legitimate our title, whatever its origin may have been. Yet it navy not ho [(miss to say a few words to allow the fallacy of those plausible and imposing dogmas, with which we too often suffer ourselves to be talked down, "Slavery," says Mr. Blackstone, " cannot originate because the transaction excludes the ides quivalent." For an answer to this specious fallacy, I shall content myself by referring you to the masterly essay of Professor Dew, who has so clearly exposed it as to leave me nothing to odd. But the commentator thither tells us, that "slavery cannot lawfully originate in conquest, as a commutation r the right to kill ; because this right rests on neces. y; and this necessity plainly does not exist, because victor does not kill his adversary, but makes him Akre." Is this a fair inference ? Let us examine it.. There is is triple alternative in the case : to kill, to islave, or to set at large. It may he practicable to do of the two first ; and yet dangerous in the ex- treme to do the last. With a savage and treacherous foe it is always so, unless his power of annoyance be completely annihilated. And how can this be between two tribes of nearly equal force? Among such is one victory an assured pledge of future and bloodless victory to the end of time? May it not, must it not, often be, that the victorious party can have no security against, future end fatal mischief, but in the destruction, or malting equivalent to the destruction, of the van- plished? This is obtained by deportation to distant lands, by which alone, or by incarceration, or something equivalent., or by extermination, or a near approach to termination, the enmity of a savage neighbor ever can be rendered harmless. The necessity of the case, so long as it exists, justifies the choice of these alternaLives. Among these, no argument is necessary to prove that foreign slavery is the mildest. But were this not so, the laws even of civilized war do not peremptorily dictate to the victor the choice he shall make among these remedies. He may kill; he may incarcerate ; or he may enlarge on pixel, clogged with such conditions as he may please to prescribe, according to the nature tied measure of n necessity, of which ho is the only j midge.* When Col. Campbell, at the head of a few militia, stooped tram the mountains of Virginia on Carolina, and bore off the corps of Col. Fergusson in his pounces, had he been pursued and overtaken by Tarleton, he must have killed his prisoners. He could not have held them, anti to have enlarged than would have been to sacrifice the lives of thousands. He who doubts this, knows nothing of the horrors of the tory war that raged in that quarter. If he had had no place of refuge, he might have handed them over to any custody, civilized or savage, in which they might have been removed from the theatre of war. This is one example among ten thousand, to show that the captivity of an enemy by no means implies the security of the captor, should he allow his prisoner to go free. Time snared tiger is in your power : you may kill him—you may cage him. "Therefore,” says Mr. Blackstone, "you are under no necessity to do chimer, and the noble beast has a fair claim to his liberty." But I have given too many wordd to the exposure of this grave sophistry. In self-defence it might have been pardoned; in crimination it is intolerable. But, ns I remarked in the outset, we have nothing to do with the origin of any particular mode of slavery. In sonic shape or other it exists, and has existed every where, since first the decree went forth, which cursed the earth, and denounced to man, " that in the sweat of his face he should eat the fruit thereof." Here is its origin; mid, as might be expected of any thing so originating, the thing is evil in itself, and in all its modes. The problem is to choose among them. To the practical man it is a thing of small difficulty; left to itself, it assumes, in every country, the form and texture best suited to the physical peculiarities of that country, and the condition of society there. But we have grown so wise, that we leave nothing to itself. The world is full of associations and combinations of men, who make it the business of their lives to regulate every thing but what concerns themselves. We every where find a sort of moral treasuries of supererogatory virtue, made up by voluntary contribution, for the benefit of all who do not affect to be wiser and better than their fathers. Turn where we will, we have the * It may be said that the laws of civilized war do not permit that prisoners be slain or incarcerated; for that if this be done, the other party may retaliate. This will prove, that ho who is cruel to his prisoners, does a wrong to his own people who may happen to be in Ms enemy's hands ; but that is all. The laws of civilized warfare acknowledge the right to retaliate, and therefore make a case, if there was no other; where slavery by conquest would be lawful. Even though he who first enslaves his prisoners be wrong ; yet ea: coneessis he "who retaliates is right. Can Mr. DInekstone toll its which of the savage African chiefs began the gone ? edifying spectacle of one half the world repenting for the sins of the other half. While the discussion of this subject was confined to ourselves; while they who denounced the practice of domestic slavery were such as could not condemn others, without standing self-condemned, we heard them patiently, as we hear from the pulpit the meek expos- tulations of the humble and contrite. Their interest afforded a pledge that they would not rashly carry their doctrines into practice: their self-rebukes excused them from the charge of arrogapee ; and the sincerity of their.enthusinsm .commanded our respect and sympathy. But since we have seen one community rashly overturning the domestic institutions of another ; and heir from our northern neighbors an avowal of the like benevolent design toward us, it is time to look into the subject more narrowly. Lot us understand it well. If we are wrong, the discovery of our fault may prepare us to bear, with becoming meekness, time impending judgment. If we are right, an understanding conviction that we are so, may be necessary to man our hearts and brace our nerves for the impending struggle. I have said diet slavery exists every where—origi.; tinting in the decree which makes labor the price of subsistence. The correlative of this proposition is that subsistence is the wages of labor. 1 shall pass by the hackneyed topic of the process by which it inevitably happens, in till societies, that some men rise to affluence, while others remain as they began. So it ever has been, is, and will be, whether we find out how it comes to puss or no. There will be rich and poor. The rich man will not dig the earth: the poor man must. He becomes the rich man's servant, and the wages of his abject toil are food and raiment. This, his condition, is compulsory and inevitable; and compulsory toil for food and raiment,—what is it but slavery? True, the compulsion is not that of his fellow-worm. But is it the less crushing, because it is enforced by one from whose power there is no escape? But are food and raiment the wages to which labor is every where stinted? Yes. Circumstancesmay make occasional differences in the price of labor, as in the settlement of a new country ; but the same law which governs the price of every thing else, governs also the price of labor. This is, in every case, the cost of production; and food and raiment, are the cost of the pro- duction of labor.	• A few remarks will show the modifications to which this rule is subject, and will prove, that strictly speaking, it admits of no exception, though its modifications any occasionally afford, to individuals, an escape from the class of laborers into thnt of employers. In a society perfectly stationary, (if there be such a thing,) where the wants of the whole community, and the nature and amount of labor necessary to supply those wants, and the subjects of labor are the same from generation to generation, there will be a steady demand for o new laborer, to supply the place of each one that dies oft: Hence the average wages will be such as to enable each pair to produce and bring forward another pair; or, in other words, they will enable n man and his wife to rear two children. If, on an average, they are more than this, then on an average, more than two children will be reared ; the number of laborers will be increased ; the supply will exceed the demand ; the competition will reduce wages below the standard of the cost of production, until the smiling laborers are starved off; and they will then return to that standard, and settle there.	• In a society retrograde in its condition, the average of wages will be less than enough to support a laboring pair and two children. There will always be a stock of surplus labor to be starved off, and a ragged lazaroni will mark this condition of society. In a society advancing in all things, there must be an increasing supply to keep up with the increasing demand. Competition among employers will enhance the price of labor, and this will enable the laboring searches of the political economists. I take it as I re-class to reproduce itself in en increasing ratio. And ceive it from them, confirmed in my conviction of its this it will do, for he who said "increase and multiply, truth, by my own experience and reflections, and replenish the earth," has commanded it.	Let us place along side of this a view of the condition it is thus perfectly true of labor, and the laboring class of slave'labor, as ascertained by observation, and by collectively, that the cost of production is the measure of the laws that determine that condition. price ; and that food and raiment for the laborer of , Of slave labor then, as of free labor, it may be said, that its wages are food and raiment for the laborer of today, and for those future laborers who are rising up to supply the future demand. Thus much they have in rule do but confirm it, and show how its maim has common. I shall not pretend to point out all the differrivetted it on the necks of men, that they shall not escape enees between the two, but shall remark on some of the from it. It is the brazen collar which marks the laborer It TILE IMUN TIMALL OF NECESSITY." His wages are never increased beyond the wants of his own individual nature, but for a purpose, to which the law of that nature makes it sure that he will apply them ; the re- numerous children, sink into that gulph from which there is no return. Of these we take no note. The few whom fortune favors, come with eclat upon the stage of higher life, and are pointed out as brilliant. examples of the blessings of a system of free labor. The countless victims of her malice " Drop from existence like time withered leaf That from the summer tree is swept away, Its loss unseen." • This compendious view of the condition of what is called "free labor," in the various stages of society, is verified by the observations and explained by the re- today, and for those future laborers who are rising up to supply the future demand, arc all that enter into the cost of production. The seeming exceptions to the most obvious and important. To the slave these wages are paid in kind, and can therefore be always made precisely adequate, and no more. To the free man they are paid in money, and may become deficient or superfluous, from a state of production of just so many others (neither more nor scarcity or abundance. In the last ease a slight advanless) as the exigencies of society may require, to follow tag° is afforded to those who need it least ; in the first in the same dull round of labor in which his life has a:ruinous loss is sustained by those least able to bear it. been spent.	To the slave, his due proportion of the common There will indeed be individuals who may seem to fund, paid to labor as a whole, is measured out with form exceptions to this rule, in every state of society. unerring accuracy. Among free laborers, some receive The laborer, whose superior strength or skill commands too much, and others, in a like degree, too little. For more than the average of wages, will have something to spare. So too, ho who, from prudence or coldness, remains unmarried ; because his wages are established according to an average of the necessities of the laboring class, from a part of which he keeps himself exempt. Such a man, if industrious, frugal, provident and thrifty, will improve in condition, and eventually emerge front the class of laborers into that of employers. But the condition of the class remains unchanged. As he rose from it, some ono, unperceived, came into it, to supply his place ; and others to meet the new demand occasioned by the addition of one more to the number of employers. Thus it is, and so it must be, that the proportional number of the laboring class never diminishes, while society advances ; and, the more rapid the advancement of the whole, the greater the proportion of laborers to employers, and the greater the competition for employment. There is, of course, a pro-grossly° reduction in the price of labor, accompanying this progressive increase of the number condemned, by impealable laws, to this low amid hard condition.—There they are, forever toiling and sweating in the dark and cheerless abodes of poverty, aliens to the society in which they breathe, whose comforts arc ever in an inverse ratio to the sum of general prosperity. But " in this lowest depth there is yet a lower deep." While superior strength and skill, and exemption from family burdens, enable some to escape to the upper air, others, under the pressure of disease, infirmity and be it remembered, that the average wages of free labor are given, not merely ns the price of the labor of the day, but also to indemnify the daily expense of producing that amount of future labor, which the future demand is to render necessary. He therefore who labors only, but rears no children, receives more than his just share. He defrauds the concern, by drawing from the common income a portion he has not earned ; while others, whom nature has burdened with more than the due proportion of children, earn more than they receive, and slider for want of the necessaries of life. This is historically as well as theoretically true. The slave is said to labor, uncheered by hope. This may be so. To those who know him best, he certainly seems a stranger to despair. Metaphysicians, I think, tell us that hopetoill not be without its objects. But it must be confessed there are things which the slave cannot hope for, though the freeman may. On the other hand, heis free from many anxieties to which the freeman is exposed. In this sense of security he has something which may well be offset against the freeman's hopes,and which some (and they not the least wise) may deem a fair equivalent to men of sordid habits and untaught minds; and such are the great body of laborers, bond or free. Among slaves, the individual is the slave of an individual master. Among free laborers, the class is held in vassalage by the class of employers. Collectively the one class may be said to lie the slave of the other. I shall not go into a minute examination of this matter. As our controversy is with Mr. Blackstone, I shall use no authority against him but his own. Hear what he says of the law of England, his boasted home of freedom. " All single men between twelve years old and sixty, and married ones under thirty years of age, rind all single women between twelve and forty, not having any visible livelihodd, are compellable, by two justices, to go out to service in husbandry or certain specific trades." This is as much as to say, " they who can only live by labor shall be, made to labor." What more do we ? They compel him to choose It muster. We appropriate his labor to a master to whom use and a common interest attach him, and who is ge. timidly the master of his choice. The wages of both are the same. In sickness, the slave looks for support to a master who is interested to maintain and cherish him, and who, for the most part, knows and loves him. What is the freeman's equivalent? Hear Mr. Blackstone:— " There Is no man so wretched or indigent, but he may demand it supply sufficient for all the necessities of life, from the more opulent part of the community, by means of the several statutes enacted for the relief of the poor. ./1 humane provision; yet, though dictated by the principles of society, discountenanced by the Ito. man laws. For the edicts of the Emperor Constantine, commanding the public to maintain the children of those who were unable to provide for them, in order to prevent the murder and exposure of 'Willis, were rejected in Justininn's collection." Who ever heard of infanticide by a slave? It is here ; on this very point, of the necessity of forcing those to labor who ttro unable to live honestly without labor, that we base the defence of our system. That such compulsion is often necessary, all reason and experience prove. But to a people jealous of freedom, it is a delicate question whether such a power over the citizen can be safely trusted to the municipal authority. To make it effectual it must be a power dangerous to liberty. It could never be carried into effect, but by a degree of rigor which must bow the spirit of the laborer and effectually disqualify him for the political functions of a sovereign citizen. It might be too much to say, that this consideration alone would warrant the intro-&Wien of domestic slavery. Lycurgus thought so. But we, finding it among us, think we follow the example of that wisdom which used to characterize our English ancestors, in turning it to use, as a safeguard of our political freedom. We have learned too, from a great master in political science, himself an enemy to slavery in all its forms, that in every country where domestic slavery exists, "those who are free, are by fir the most proud and jealous of their freedom. Freedom is to them not only an enjoyment, but a kind of rank and privilege. Not seeing that freedom, as in countries whore it is a common blessing, and as broad and gene- ral as the air, may be united with much abject toil, with great misery, with all the exterior of servitude, liberty looks, Amongst them, like something that is More noble and liberal. h	* Such were all the ancient Com- monwealths; such were our Gothic ancestors ; such, in our days, were the Poles; and such will be all masters of slaves who are not slaves themselves. In such a people, the haughtiness of domination combines with the spirit of freedom, fortifies it, and renders it invincible." Such is the lesson read to us sixty years ago, by one who wished us well, and who thoroughly understood the character of our people, and the causes that had in- fluenced in the formation of that character. It. is of a piece with the general maxims of that school of practi- cal wisdom, and sound political philosophy, in which our fathers learned the grand principles imbodied in our institutions. In that school, every thing was con- ceded to liberty ; nothing to licentiousness : every thing to religion; nothing to fanaticism every allowance was made for the natural and untaught feelings of the human heart; none for sickly artificial sensibility. Its maxims were drawn from experience, observation nod reflection on man as he is; not from fanciful speculations on men as he might have been, had it pleased God to have made him differently. But since that day great light has risen on the world, and the descendants of these statesmen now and, that the imperfect vision of their fathers did but " see men, as trees walking." The present generation see clearly, and renouncing all res- pect for those whom God commands to honor living, and to reverence in death, bless themselves, saying, "If wo had been in the days of our fathers we would not have been partakers" in their sins. Even so let it be. Let them desecrate and demolish the tombs of their fathers, to build up a monument to their own praise. But what spell is upon us, that we should follow their example, and signalize our ingratitude to the men to whose teachings we owe all that is valuable in our institutions, by joining in a crusade against our own rights, and "lending an active compliance to our own ruin?" We certainly have reason to believe that the existence of domestic slavery among us has been of singular advantage in preserving the free spirit of our people. Slave labor pre-occupies and fills the low and degrading stations in society. Menial offices are altogether discharged by it ; and all the tasks of mere brute strength are left to it. To the freeman belong those services which imply trust and confidence, or require skill ; which therefore command higher wages than mere animal labor, and give a sense of respectability and a feeling of self-respect. I know we are told that if we wish to see the perfection of free government, we must look elsewhere. We look ; and we do indeed see the theory of democracy carried to its full extent, but we behold no practical results which we at all envy. We do not find that any good has come from elevating the whole class of laborers, in all its servile and degraded branches, to the sovereign privilege of voting. 1We believed a jiriori (and observation proves that we were right) that the first and only use the hireling would make of his political franchise, would be to sell it to the demagogue. But though convinced ed this, the experience of other states justifies a doubt, whether, IF Al.!. OUR LABORERS 'WERE FREEMEN, it would be possible to withhold from them the privilege of voting. We know that it has been elsewhere wrung from the reluctant grasp of the freeholders, who deeply, but silently, lament the forced concession. Our statesmen have been privately admonished by them to profit by the experience of their error, and hold fast by our institutions. Publicly indeed, we are taunted with what are called the aristocratic features of our government ; but we know, and the enemies of freedom know it too, that when power has marched unchecked and unchallenged over the prostrate democracy of free labor and universal suffrage, it has always found here the most formidable barriers to its progress. I take the liberty of appending, by way of note, a quotation from the same statesman, whose words I have already used, which shows that this idea of the connexion between DOMESTIC slavery and MUNICIPAL, liberty, is not new. Our former oppressors were aware of it sixty years ago, and seriously meditated the destruction of the latter by the abolition of the former. The following extract may show where our present oppressors got the first hint of that scheme of interested philanthropy which proposes to strip us of our property for the good of our souls, Mr. Burke says, (in 1775) "With regard to the high aristocratic spirit of Virginia and the southern co- lonies, it has been proposed, I know, to reduce it, by de-1 Glaring a general citfi•anchisement of slaves. This project' has had its advocates and panegyrists ; yet I never could argue myself into any opinion of it. Slaves are often much attached to their masters. A general wild offer of liberty would not always be accepted. History furnishes few instances of it. his sometimes as hard to persuade slaves to be free, as it is to compel feeemen to be slaves ; end, in this auspicious scheme, we, should have both these pleasing tasks on our hands at once. But when we talk of enfranchisement, do we not perceive that the American master may enfranchise too, and arm servile hands in defence of freedom? A measure to which other people have had recourse more than once, and not without success, in a desperate situation of their affairs. "Slaves as these unfortunate black people are, and dull as all men are from slavery, must they not n little suspect an offer of freedom from that very nation which has sold them to their present masters? From nation, one of whose causes of quarrel with those masters, is their refusal to deal any more in that inhuman traffic? An offer of freedom from England would come rather oddly, shipped to them in an African vessel, which is refused an entry into the ports of Virginia or Carolina, with a cargo . of three hundred Angola negrocs. It would be curious to see the Guinea captain attempting at the same instant. to publish his proclamation of liberty, and to advertise his sale of slaves." This last absurdity, our northern guardians, pastors, or masters, (I am not particular about the designation,) have wisely avoided. As long as the slave trade was allowed, they were only anxious to secure to themselves a monopoly of the advantage of carrying it on. Having lost this, they seek an equivalent. by putting a new face on the matter. Let me not be understood as bringing this charge against all who are engaged in this crusade against our rights. Like all other crusades, it is the work of a few knaves and many dupes. The latter are, proverbially, the tools of the former. Without them, the knave cannot carry on his trade. There are things to be done which he cannot do in person, and which are best accomplished by the clumsy zeal of bungling philanthropy. The fate of the West, Indies is a case in point. The case of the tame bear, set by a mischievous wag to keep the flies Off Of the face of the sleeping hermit, is another. For the Southern Literary Messenger. THE ROMANCE OF REAL LIFE. "Ill make thee famous with my pen, And glorious with my sword." Fr is said, and truly said, that "Truth is often more incredible than fiction." It is natural too, that we should take a deeper interest in the fortunes of creatures of flesh and blood, who have actually lived mid suffered, than in the imaginary sorrows of beings that are themselves but figments of the writer's brain. Why then do we so rarely meet with any narrative of facts which engages our feelings so deeply as a well wrought fiction? May it not be that in all histories of a romantic character there is, from the very nature of the thing, a degree of mystery which we cannot penetrate ; and that the innumerable little incidents, which adorn the pages of it romance, and so aptly illustrate the cha- racters of the parties, are hidden by the veil of domestic privacy? It might be allowable to supply these; but the attempt to do so, is always offensive to the reader. We are disgusted at seeing truth alloyed by fiction, and the fiction always betrays itself. Let a characteristic chit-chat be detailed, and we find ourselves wondering who it was that took notes of the conversation. We read the scene between Ravenswood and Miss Ashton at the haunted fountain, and never ask, whether she rose from her grave, or he emerged from the Kelpie's flow, to describe it to the writer. But such a narrative concerning real persons, would inevitably disgust. us; and no writer of any tact would ever attempt it. None above the grade of Parson Weems ever did. There is no wilder romance than his life of Marion. But who reads it? We feel that it profanes the truth of history with fiction, and we throw it. away with disgust. Yet it conies nearer to Schiller's masterpiece, "The Robbers," than any thing else. Is it less interesting because the prompting impulse of the hero is*virtuous, not criminal? No; but there is just truth enough to keep us always mindful of the falsehood. The great art, and the great charm of Walter Scott, is that he never describes his characters. He brings us info their society, and makes us know them. Bnt how shall I make known the persons of whom I wish to speak 1 I can say that	was generous and brave, sincere, and kind, and true, and that SUE was fair and gentle, and pure and tender. These are but words, and have been repeated till they have lost their meaning. I can say that both loved ; but how can I show the passion flashing in the eye, and glowing in the cheek—and how can I give it breath in their own burning words? I heard them not. None heard them. I can n ng; Borne on the breeze that cools her glowing cheek, But fans the ardor of her fevered breast ; Lifts the loose lock that floats upon her neck, Sports round her couch, and hovers o'er her rest: Borne on that breeze, it greets her listening ear With tales of raptured bliss and tender wo ; And tells of Joy and Grief, of Hope, Despair, And all that love, and Love alone can know. Her fair companions hear the soothing sound, But mute to them the voice that speaks to her ; Burns the warm blush, unmarked of all around, And darkling falls, unseen, the silent tear. But not unseen of all ; for to his eye, By Fancy's magic light she stands revealed; Her bosom struggling with the half-breathed sigh, By the strong pressure of her hand repelled. The Tear that in the moon-beam sparkles bright ; The pensive look ; the outstretched neck of snow ; The Blush, contending with the silver light, Whose cold pale gleam would quench its fervid glow . He sees and hears it. all. The music's stream Extends n viewless chord of sympathy, Thought answers thought ; and, lost in Fancy's dream, Each breast responsive swells with sigh for sigh. Then 0 how sweet ! warmed by the sacred flame, Of mutual—truer–but fruitless—hopeless love, To run the high career of deathless fame, And mid the world's admiring gaze to move Reckless of all but her. By midnight lamp, To turn, with heedful eye, the learned page ; To shake the Senate, or to rule the Camp; To brave the tempest's blast, or battle's rage! What is the thought that prompts his studious zeal? That nutria his breast in danger's fearful path? That nerves his arm to grasp the gory steel, Her raptured tears bedew each glowing line. It is that she will cherish the renown Of noble deeds achieved her name to grace; And prize the heart that beat for her alone, In glory's triumph, and in death's embrace. 'Pis that a grateful nation's loud acclaim May pour his praises on her favoring ea •; '`Iris that the twilight splendor of his name The widowed darkness of her heart may cheer. when the damps of the grave had at last cooled the fever of his brain. 'Tis sweet, when night is hushed in deep repose ; And hides the Minstrel's form from every eye; To breathe the thoughts that speech can ne'er disclose, In all the eloquence of harmony. The mellow strain pervades the silent air, And mingles with the sleeper's blissful dream: The Lover hears the song of maiden fair; The humble saint, an Angel's holy hymn. Then sweet to know that she, for whom alone, Pours the wild stream of plaintive melody, Recalls the voice of Love in every tone ; Approves its truth, and owns its purity. but how can I deVei0PC the mysterious means by which this destiny was accomplished? How could I speak, but in their own words, uttered only to the midnight solitude, the deep yearnings of their hearts—and the noble enthusiasm which made it the task of his life to render glorious the name of him she had honored with her love ? Could these details he given truly, what romance of real life would they form! Let the reader judge from the following lines found among his papers, say that the hand of destiny was upon them, and tore	Despising toil and hardship, wounds and death? them asunder to meet no more. I can even use the • It is that she the impassioned strain will love, words of one whose strains he loved, to tell That gives her charms in deathless verse to shine; "That neither ever found another	Fier favoring smile his steadfast faith approve; To free the h o11 ow heart from pa1 0! ever lovely, loving and beloved ; Constant in absence; constant in despair! Ily time unwearied, by caprice unmoved ; Thy lover's faith and fame thine only care t Tho' known to none but thee thy minstrel's name, Or who the fair that caused his tender pain; All undistinguished by the voice of fame, The bard who sung; the maid that waked the strain. Yet ma y'st thou catch the unconscious sympathy Of some soft, nymph, NVI10, from her lover's tongue, Hears, witl- averted look and 1)lusl- and sigh, ler heart's fond secret in this artless song. But were I skilled to weave the immortal verse, Which after ages with applause would read ; Thy praise in fitting accents Pd rehearse, And with unfading bay would crown thy head. Then should my Laura's charms survive the tomb, In strains like that the fairy bulbul sings, When all unseen he wakes the midnight gloom, Hovering o'er beauty's grave on viewless wings. To Contributors, Correspondents, &c. We thank our correspondent C. W. L. for pointing out the resemblance between the little epigram entitled "The Mistake Cor- rected," in our last, and the " Surprise," in Little's poems, which he quotes. The resemblance is certainly strong, and it is quite probable that the former if not borrowed was at least sug- - gusted by the latter. We cannot agree however, that It Is a "plagiarism," in the proper sense of that term ; :for we know too well the personal and literary character of the gentleman who presented us with the trifle referred to, to suspect him for a um! ment of so paltry a proceeding. We rather conclude therefore, that'its resemblance to Moore's bagatelle, is either the result of casual coincidence,—or more probably, perhaps, of an accidental mistake of the product of memory for that of fancy ;'a kind of mistake which those who have read much are very liable to make. We assure our correspondent B. R. B. that we have carefully compared the lines published in our last with his manuscript, and find them to correspond verbatim. He wrongs us much if he thinks we would do him wilful injustice ; and if 'one word has been substituted for another in the lines referred to, so as to change their sense, he must ascribe it to himself. We hope with this explanation he will excuse us from inserting his letter at full length. Tlfere is a great deal of feeling in many of the communications sent to the publisher by T. H. C., M. D.; but to our poor taste, there is not much poetry. We question whether the Doctorwill not find the lancet and pill box of more profit in that warm region to which he has emigrated, than the offerings of his prolific muse. The poetical manufacture depends more upon the quality than the quantity of its fabrics, for succesS.., We have received the following communication since the publication of our last number; from "Pia Diiivol6;"1Herresco referens!) which, as it is brief, we spread before our readers. His sneers at our "literary morality" and "critical actrien," we receive with great coMposure.' Perhaps -indeed, our vanity might he wounded if we had a tithe only of whet Seems to belong to the writer himself; but as our pretensions are very humble, we care not a farthing whether 'they are disputed or -nbt. His request not to publish his poetry, (except on his own terms) shall be complied with ; and should we consign his impure effusions to the flaMes, as he also desireS, the world will have little or no cause to regret it. So long as we can secure the rich conAributions received from other quarters, we shall console ourselves with the loss- of "Era's" favors, and oven endeavor to survive his unprovoked resentment. To "give the devil his due," however, we shall continue to lament the downWard High of our correspondent's muse; and uninitiated as-we profess to be in the sublime mysteries of the school to which he belongs, we shall even he so perverse as to prefer the "modest mien and plain attire" of mediocrity, to the more; flashy but less useful adornments of brilliant but misguided genius. One word i justification of ourselves. We did not admit the " Doom" into our columns without reluctance ; a reluctance which nothin would have overcome but the conviction that a useful moral might be deduced from the fate of the "Lever Fiend," who figures as the hero of the story. As to the "Passage of the Be-resins," whether it be " balderdash" or not, is matter of last and opinion. One thing is certain ; it is from the pen& ahighly accomplished scholar. Mr. White,—/ have just seen your sixth number of the South-_Literary Messenger, and shall decline having my contribution published on condition of any improvement of the poetry by your most chaste and wise editor. The admission of such balderdash as the " Dfli1714" and " The Passage of tho Dercsina," is quite enough evidence of his literary morality and good taste. I require no further token of it; least of all in my step ease, where I am to be martyred at the shrine of such critical acumen--God save the mark: Put (Ac manuscript into the fire, and oblige yours, PRA DIAVOLO. March 25, 1833. From the author of the "Note to Blackstone's Commenta- ries." " You judge tightly that I have no call to answer my censor I have no pride of authorship in the affair. I wished o awaken the public mind; and lie has aided me, for which lie has my thanks. I have no controversy with him. He argues .against opiniona I have not advanced, and, in his last paragraph, comes In aid of that I bad- endeavored to maintain. By his own showing a quasi war exists among ourselves, under circumstances which render any nearer approach to peace Impossible. We have the alternative of " a war-like peace, or a peace.like war," and he wisely prefers the former. He predicates tide deeision-on the only principle for which I contended, viz : the effect of a continuing necessity. I only suggested the possibility-of such a ease. He finds it existing ja feel. It doubtless might exist in various ways. Destruction is the precise object of savage warfare. With us,it is the means to art end. With savages, it is the end itself. Hind he seen, ae I have, a few individuals of once powerful tribes, escaped from massacre, end saved from 'utter extinction only, by finding +shelter among the, whites, he would not have to learn that odium ad internecionem is not unknown among savages. The style and matter of-his essay both show an education which should have-taught him that a supercilious tone should find no place in a- controversy between an anonymous and an avowed author. ITV wears defensive armor. I am naked. Is it 'chivalrous ; is it manly ; is it fair, in 'a contest which should be conducted '1 no if a brother &mold a brother dare to gentle exercise and proof of arms," to thrust with " unbated point ?" His point indeed is not envenomed, nor does he stab malignantly, but his should have touched my scutcheon with the reverse of his lance. To strike with the point;:- however gently, is a challenge to combat of outraUce. I decline it. Extract of a Letter from the Reviewer of Jifassxs Jlitants' and Everett Orations. You say, 1( Tho most sublime events amt -lire most heroic lions have generally found some poet or historian of sufficient qualifications to record them with dignity and effect." Granted, but what is dignity ? Does it consist in that sort of declamation which is meant to " split the ears of the groundlings ?" What is effect? Is it stage effect ? Is it made up of "gun, drum, trumpet, blunderbuss and thunder," and images placed by the speakeios side to be apostrophized ? The example that you give illustrates the maxim that," the language of eulogy is misapplied to transcendent greatness. It weakens:and dictates the truth of history." Yen say "even the most exalted truths which have aver dawned upon mankind,—the facts and doctrines of revelation,-7 have lost none of their grandeur in the simple narratives of plain and unlettered men." Most true. The simplicity of the narrative is its excellence. But what should we say to a Gospel manner of Mr. Adams, or even of Mr. Everett ? Mr. While :—The legitimate aimis, as you your-have more than once remarked, to point out the proper path owards excellence. A true critic effects this by gently and wily exposing error, and lauding beauties whore beauties e to be found. So far as I can judge, neither gentleness nor ourtesy can be said to characterize the critique of your "Shepherdstntvn friend." The want of these qualities would certainly have induced me to pass over the letter in question, had it not received honorable notice from yourself. In the pamphlet war Malibu* Carey and the redoubtable Cobbett, the first pologizes for his own rudeness, by quoting the old proverb, fight the devil with fire," or something to that amount. But is is bad philosophy ; and In my brief answer, I will endeavor uch as possible to observe that courtesy which your correspondent has forgotten. In the " Song of the Seasons" quaintness was aimed at, and ed ut only because I thought the subject called for it. One part of my object was to depict the minute relations existing between the human heart and earth itself. Minuteness was necessary, and to be minute withoUt quaintness, would render any piece dull and pointless analysis. With regard to obscurity, and the use of terms, I would ask your Ernie, if when he had "dui died the song," obscurity did not disappear, and if the terms are not in keeping with the quaintness aimed at, Indeed, I would . ask him, if the terms used are not just such as should have been used in any case. Beams are "amethystine." We will find an admirable application of the word in Heates' " Eve of St. Agnes ;" and Mrs. Hemans sings very prettily: of the drowsy "Bugle-Bee." By the way, let me in this last phrase, adopt the change recommended. The stanzas quoted is the second of the " song.), "A white roe wandered where sweet herbs and tender grass were peeping ; His snowy head was poised in pride, his cl ainless heart was leaping : The 'bumble-bee, had called the herd from icy solitude,— And he had come at bumble' call—fleet centaur of the Wood P A vast improvement Joint. The term "gauze wing,” is as common as the rhymes love and dove. " Soughing blasts" are frequent in Wyatt, and more frequent in Shakspcare. An amethystine beam thrown on a red body produces a glittering gold, and thins the red breast of poor robin" was metamorphosed into one of gold. So much for the criticism. As for-the critic, he has moat unequiVocally proved himself, by these syllabic censures, to be one of the anceps syllabarum tribe. As such I wonder that you, who have so often expressed your contempt for the whole race, should have opened your columns to his communication. Is not his letter a specimen of "the carpings of illiberal and puerile criticism ?" Is not the writer one of the " little great men in the world, who have the vanity to conceive that their taste and judgment, (if they have any) is the standard for all' mankind, and who snap and bark like the -curs which infest our streets and annoy the by-ways ?" I have used your own words, and ask if they are not applicable. The Sting of the Seasens (thought never BO little deserving,) has received praise from a higher quarter than Shepherdstown. My home is not very, far from that village—near enough to know the character of its people ; and in, truth, gentlemen of talent and distinction are there with Whom I have itVer held it en honor to be acquainted: But it is plain that the critique mild not have been written by any=one of them.	had no reason for thinking so, I ivould say, "because it is not in keeping with the good, sons), accurate taste, and elevated candor which I know therm to possess." - As for their townsmen, I have never heard of any Longinus among them, whose praise would not be disgraCe. If your ," friend" thinks an answeeto this necessary, let me hope that his name will accompany the conimunication; or if he is nnwillifig to annoy, with private concerns, the public "upon whom Larry Lyle has [already) in. flitted the study of his song," his communication may be direeted, not to yourself, but to his very humble servant, LARRY -LYLE. Winchester; Va. spurring to the top of on Indian barrow, placed himself and me at the desired point of view, We were on the spot that overlooks the confluence of Salt River with the Mississippi. Having once travelled an hundred miles to see the Natural Bridge, and having heard from Mr. Jefferson that that sight was worthy of a voyage across the Atlantic, I certainly did not grudge the price I had paid for the view that opened on Ma. The confluence of the rivers is nearly at right angles. The hill descends with equal abruptness towards each, and, at first glance, the apex seems to overhang the water of each. But this is not so. The descent, perhaps, wants two or three degrees of perpendicularity, and, at the bottom, there is n narrow border of low-ground, fringing the banks with lofty trees. The appearance of these trees gave the only measure of the height of the hill. To the eye they might, be bushes. My guide assured me they were of the tallest growth. . To the East, across the Mississippi, lay what is called Howard's bottom. This is, as its name imports, a body of low ground. Its width is said to be, in some pieces, not less than six miles, and to be nearly uniform for a distance of sixty. Of this I could not judge. It seemed that it might be so. I was nearly opposite the middle of it, and overlooking the whole. Next the water was a border of the most luxuriant forest, apparently some half a mile in width, and beyond this, a Prairie reaching to the foot of the hills, interspersed with masses of forest, and groves, and stumps, and single trees, among which, here and there, were glittering glimpses of the Chenaille ccartee, which traverses the whole length of it. You, who know the vesture in which nature clothes these fertile plains, need not be told how rich and soft was the beautiful picture thus spread beneath my feet. Its soling was not less remarkable. This was a perpcn(Heider wall of limestone, two or three hundred feet high, which bounds the valley on the east. An occasional gap, affording an outlet to the country beyond, alone broke the continuity of this barrier. To the North, lay the extensive plain through which Salt River winds. I have no idea of its extent. It is a vast amphitheatre, surrounded by lofty and richly-wooded hills. The plain itself is of wood and Prairie interspersed, and so blended, that every tree seems placed for effect. You are not to suppose, because I do not launch out in florid declamation about the beauty, and grandeur, and magnificence, and all that, of this scene, that it was less striking than you would naturally suppose it must be, You know that I have neither talent nor taste for fine writing, so you must take the picture as I give it, and draw on your own imagination for the garniture. I have said nothing of' the rivers, but to tell you they were there, and flowing through a landscape of ninny , hundred thousand acres of the richest land on earth, with the most beautifully variegated surface, all spread out under my feet. 1 felt that tl;e scone was sublime; and it is well for your patience, that I have learned that sublime things are best described in fewest words. It is certainly the finest I ever saw. There may be others equal to it, but the earth does not afford room for many such, What will it be, when it becomes "a living land- scape of groves and corn-fields, and the abodes of men?" As it is, it' the warrior, on whose tomb I stood, could raise his head, he would see it in nothing changed from what it was when his last sun set upon it. For the Sciuthern Literary Messenger. WESTERN SCENERY. EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM A IVESTERN.TRAVELLER. We had rode about a mile, when my guide said, that if I was willing to go a hundred yards out of the way, ho could show me something worth seeing. I no sooner assented to this, than he cast around him his keen woodsman's glance, and then, turning his horse in a direction slightly diverging from the road, struck into the woods. I followed, and presently observed that we were pursuing a course nearly parallel to what seemed to be a precipice, beyond the verge of which I caught glimpses of a vast extent of country. Without allowing me time to sec any thing distinctly, my guide pushed on, and, For the Southern Literary Messenger. THE BEAUTIES of the Court of Charles the Second ; a series of Memoirs, Biographical and Critical, illustrating the Diaries of Pepys, Evelyn, Clarendon, and other contemporary wri- ters. By Mre. Jameson, authoress of "The Loves of the Poets," " Lives of Female Sovereigns," "Visits and Sketches at Home and Abroad," &c. &c. Philadelphia E. L. Cary & A. Hart. pp. 304. Om FEW portions of history are more replete with characters illustrating the good and evil of human nature, in both extremes, than that of the reign and court, of Charles II. The stern dominion of a sour and superstitious bigotry had just passed away ; the disgusting hypocrisy which had disguised all vice under the mask of religion and virtue had been exposed ; and the dis• closure had awakened a doubt, even in the minds of the wise and good, whether unbounded license was not more tolerable than the enormities practised in those hiding-places of crime, into which the severe discipline of the Protectorate had driven it. The public eye might impose some restraint ; but when the indulgence of harmless mirth and the enjoyment. of innocent amusement were unsafe, except in private, who could tell what unseen abominations might. be perpetrated in recesses which the world was not permitted to look into. Nothing is more true, than that the appetite for pleasure grows by indulgence, and that, pushed to the verge of what is lawful, it is too apt to pass into criminal excess. But innocent pleasures men will have. W hat security that they will be content with these! None but the influence of public sentiment, constraining them to respect the almost viewless boundary that divides the extreme of lawful indulgence from the beginnings of licentiousness. The exercise of this influence is a duty society owes to itself; but to exert it, we must bear to look upon the scenes where its authority should be felt. If we fastidiously turn away, and refuse to the young, the gay, the sanguine and the thoughtless, the benefit of that aggregate judgment concerning right and wrong, which we distinguish by tl-e attune of "public sentiment," we incur more risk of becoming " partakers of the sins of others," than we should by looking on with that complacent smile of benevolent sympathy, which its objects would not willingly exchange for the frown of merited disapprobation. In this smile and this frown are the sanctions for that " regulated indulgence" which it wise and good man has pronounced to be " the best security against excess." When Charles on his accession avowed a disposition to claim for himself, and to allow to others the unbounded license which his foreign habits had rendered necessary to him, it was of course, that multitudes should eagerly avail themselves of the privilege. It was not wonderful that even the virtuous should acquiesce in this new scheme of things, instead of endeavoring to apply correctives which they had just seen so much abused. The consequence was, that during that most flagitious reign, the mind was left to put forth all its wild unpruned luxuriance. Human nature displayed itself in all the forms of all of its varieties, each in the Most extreme dimensions. Vice walked abroad in naked deformity ; and orgies, such as the sun had never before been permitted to look on, were perpetrated in the face of day. But if the "poor virtues of the age lacked countenance," how conspicuous was that virtue, which still resolutely resisted all the allurements with which fashion invests pleasure, and in the midst of a corrupt generation, preserved its purity inviolate. God has never left, himself without a witness. There were, even in in that day, men devoted to all their duties to him, to their fellows, and to themselves, and their light did but shine the brighter for the darkness that surrounded it. The pacific policy of a monarch, who is now known to have been the pensioner of the natural enemy of his country, allbrded few opportunities to acquire fame in the service of the crown. It was chiefly in private life that virtue had to seek that honorable distinction which it naturally covets. That distinction the character of the age rendered more conspicuous and honorable, and it was therefore the more eagerly sought. We are not particularly anxious about this theory, but it helps us to understand, not only how it was that the pure and muddy waters mingled without blending, but how it happened that the unexampled excellence of an Ormond and an Ossory were found side by side with the unheard of depravity of a Buckingham and a Rochester. Of the private as well as public history of the courtiers of Charles II, we have the most authentic records, and they arc full of amusement and instruction. It hits been lamented that they have been, for the most part, transmitted to us through channels which must soil the reader's mind, and endanger an injury more than commensurate to the value of the information. We have reason to rejoice therefore, that wo are at length permitted to receive them through the refining, filter of a female mind, from which they are transmitted pure and "bright as diamond spark." What lover ever read the history of Grammont without lamenting that it was impossible to impart any portion of his delight to his mistress. The difficulty is now removed ; and Mrs. Jameson deserves the thanks of her sex, for having rendered accessible to them, not only a theme of most amusing gossip, but one of the most instructive and edifying chapters in the history of man. We especially recommend this work to their perusal, The witty Hamilton and the gay Grammont will still perhaps be most read by the men, but even they will derive advantage from looking, through the chaste eyes of a virtuous female, on the same scenes and the same characters exhibited by this profligate pair. Of time manner in which this work is executed, nothing need be said to those fitmiliar with the writings of Mrs. Jameson. It is every way worthy of her well merited reputation. We extract a few passages, which may serve as examples of the work. But they are not selected for any particular merit, but merely to illus- trate the foregoing remarks. Theyare most attractive pictures of virtues, the exact opposite of the vices which characterized the age ; and we are not sure that they do not as widely differ from the average standard of the human character. Whitt can be more captivating than this account of Labelle Hamilton. "She was then just arrived at that age when the budding girl expands into the woman : her figure was tall, rather full, but elegantly formed ; and, to borrow Lord Herbert's beautiful expression, varied itself into every grace that can belong either to rest, or motion.' She had the finest neck and the loveliest hand and arm in the world : her forehead was fair and open; her hair dark and luxuriant, always arranged with the most exquisite taste, but with an air of natural and picturesque simplicity, which meaner beauties in vain essayed to copy ; her complexion, at a time when the use of paint was universal, owed nothing to art; her eyes were not large, but sparkling and full of expression ; her mouth, though not a little haughtiness is implied in the curve of the under lip, was charming, and the contour of her fitce perfect. "The soul which heaven had lodged in this thir person was worthy of its shrine. In those days, the very golden age of folly and itffeclation, the beauties, by prescriptive right, might be divided into two factions, whom I shall call the languishers and the sparklers; the languishers were those who, being dull by nature, or at least not bright, affected an extreme softness—lounged and lolled—simpered and sighed—lisped or drawled out their words—half shut their eyes—and moved as if 'they were not born to earry their own weight.' The sparklers were those who, upon the strength of bright eyes and some natural vivacity and impertinence, set up lbr female wits : in conversation they attempted to dazzle by such sallies as would now be scarcely tolerated from the most abandoned of their sex ; they were gay, airy, fluttering, fantastical, and talkative—they dealt in bon mots and repartees—they threw their glances right and left, a tort et a traveriand piqued themselves upon taking hearts by a coup-demain. Miss Hamilton belonged to neither of these classes: though lively by nature, site had felt perhaps the necessity of maintaining a reserve of manner which should keep presumptuous fops at it distance. She wore her feminine dignity as an advanced guard—her wit as a body of reserve. She did not speak much, but what she said was to the purpose, just what the occasion demanded and no more. Fiere a Mute oulrance, when- ever she was called upon to stand on the defensive, she was less possessed with the idea of her own merit than might have been supposed ; and, far from thinking her consequence increased by the number of her lovers, she was singularly fastidious with regard to the qualifications of those whom she admitted upon the list of aspirants." In the family of Ormond we have a galaxy of excellence. The following extracts make us balance the truth of history and our experience of real life. Whom do we know like old Ormond and his wife? Whom like his noble son and his charming countess? 'rake the character of the Duchess from the lips of an enemy. "When the Duke of Ormond withdrew to Fromm, in 1655, he found himself obliged to leave his wife and family behind : and soon afterwards Cromwell caused the Earl of Ossory to be arrested upon no specific charge and committed to the Tower. His mother waited upon the protector to remonstrate, and to solicit his enlargement, pleading the quiet and inoffensive life which she led with her children in London. Cromwell told her plainly, that he had more reason to fear her ' than any body else. She replied with dignity and spirit, and in the presence of a »nmerous drawing-room, that 'she desired no favor at his hands, but merely justice to her. innocent son ;'—and that 'she thought it strange that she, who had never been concerned in a plot in her life, nor opened her mouth against his person and government, should be represented as so terrible a person." No, madam l' replied Cromwell, that is not the case ; but your worth has gained you so great an •	influence over all the commanders of our party, and we know so well your power over your own party, that it is in your ladyship's breast to net what you please.'" The following descriptions of the Earl and Countess of Ossory are delightful. " At this time, the Earl of Ossory was about four and twenty ; he was tall, well made, and handsome ; with an open expressive countenance, and fine teeth and hair; he rode, fenced, and danced remarkably well ; played on the lute and the guitar ; spoke French eloquently, and Italian fluently ; was a good historian ; and seems to have had a taste for light and elegant literature, for Sir Robert Southwell represents him as so well read in poetry and romance, that ' in a gallery full of pictures and hangings, he could tell the stories of all that were there described.' These however were the mere superficial graces which enabled him to please in the drawing-room, and to these he added all the rare mid oehle qualities which can distinguish a man in the cabinet and in the field. 1Ic was wise in council, quick 81111 decided in action, its brave in battle as an Aniadis of Gaul—gallant 'beyond the fiction of romanee'— humane, courteous, affable, temperate, generous to profusion, and open almost to a fault. ' In it word,' says the historian, his virtue was unspotted in the centre of a luxurious court; his inteirrity umbiemished amid all the vices of the times ; his honor untainted through the course of his whole life ;' and it is most worthy of remark, that in those days, when the spirits of men were heated with party rage; when profligate pens were wielded by profligate and obscure amt satire I unbated and envenomed,' was levelled at whatever was noble, or beautiful, or good in the land ; not a single expression can any where be traced to contradict or invalidate this universal testimony. No writer,' (I quote again from history,) ever appeared then or since, so regardless of truth and of his own (iameter, as to venture One stroke of censure on that of the Earl of Ossory.' " " She was, indeed,' adds the grave historian of the family, 'an admirable economist ; always cheerful, and never known to be out of humor, so that they lived together in the most perfect harmony imaginable. Lord Ossory never found any place or company more agreeable than he found at borne ; and when he returned thither from court, they constantly met with open arms, with kind embraces, and the most moving expressions of mutual tenderness' "But this picture, bright and beautiful as it is, had its shades. In this world of ours, where but to think, is to be full of sorrow,' Lady Ossory was so far most happy, that though she suffered through those she loved, (as all must do who embark their happiness in their affections,) she never sull'ered by them : but she lost several of her numerous tinnily at an early age; and the frequent absence of Lord Ossory, whilst engaged in the highest civil and military employments, must have doomed her to many widowed hours. The reckless valor too, with which he exposed his life, and which was such as even to call down a rebuke from his brave father, must have filled the gentle bosom of his wife with a thousand fond anxieties: yet might not those partings and meetings, those alternations of hope end fear, those trembling terrors for his safety, those rapturous tears which greeted his return, have assisted to keep freshly alive, through a long series of years, all the romance of early passion? And was not this much 7 Did Lady. Ossory buy too dearly the proud happiness of belonging to that man, upon whom the eyes of all Europe were fixed to gaze and to admire ; who from every new triumph brought her home a faith and love unchanged—deposing his honors at her feet, and his Ceres in her gentle arms? Let the woman who reads this question, answer it to her own heart." The following anecdote, with the appended note, illustrates a point of character on which we always dwell with delight, though it is not often found associated with prudence and wisdom. In 1671 occurred that extraordinary attempt on the life of the Duke of Ormond by the ruffian Blood, of notorious memory ; it is supposed at the instigation of Buckingham. '1 here was, in fact, something so audacious and so theatrical in the idea of hanging the duke upon the gallows at Tyburn, that it could only have originated with that Panfaron de crimes.' Such, at least, was the general opinion at the time. A few days after this event, Lord Ossory meeting the Duke of Buckingham in the king's chamber, the color flushed to his temples with passion, Unit his eyes sparkled with such ire, that the duke took refuge behind the king's chair. My lord,' said Ossory, stepping up to him,	know well that you are at the bottom of this late attempt of Blood's upon my father, and therefore I give you fair warning, if my father comes to a violent end by sword or pistol,—if he dies by the hand of a ruffian, or the more secret way of poison, I shall not be at a loss to know the first author of it; I shall consider you as the assassin ; 1 shall treat you as such, and I shall pistol you, though you stood beside the king's chair; and I tell it you in his majesty's presence, that you may he sure I shall keep my word' So saying, lie turned upon his heel, leaving the duke so completely overawed, that lie had not even spirit to titter a denial."* We will conclude by adding the character of a lady (the Wile of Hyde Earl of Rochester,) of whom it is praise enough to say, that she was beautiful, rich, noble and powerful, and chose to love her husband, nurse her children, and live in obscurity. "It is perhaps the highest eulogium that could be pronounced on the character and conduct of his far, gentle-looking, and really amiable wife, that while her husband was treading, the steep and tortuous paths of court diplomacy, rising to rank and honors, and filling the highest offices in the state, we do not even hear of her, except in her domestic relations. In the recent publication of the Clarendon papers, Lndy Rochester is seldom mentioned ; but from the manner in which she is alluded to, we may infer, without danger of being mistaken, that she was the excellent and submissive wife of an impatient and despotic husband ; that she lived in the utmost harmony with her children and her relatives; that she frequented the court but little. "It should seem that her days flowed along in one even course of unpretending duties and blameless pleasures : duties such as her sex and station prescribe, pleasures such as her rank and fortune permitted,—interrupted and clouded by such cares and infirmities as are the common lot of mortality. This description of Lady Rochester may appear a little insipid after the pimiento adventures of a Cleveland and a Chesterfield, and others of her more brilliant and interesting contemporaries ; yet there is in its repose and innocence something that not only refreshes, but sweetens the imagination: as in a garden where peonies, and pinks, and carnations, and tall lilies, 'And canker blooms, with full as deep a ilia, As the perfumed tincture of the reties,' liana to the eye and allure the sense, should we suddenly find a jasmine, trailing its light tendrils and luxuriant foliage round a lordly elm, with what delight should we appropriate its starry, unsullied blossoms, and place them in our bosom!" *I believe no writer has remarked the singular coincidence between the characters and fortunes of the Duke of Ormond, and his ancestor, tho Earl of Ormond, of Elizabeth's timo. Both woro bravo, popular, enthusiastically loyal, and inflexibly honest ; both wore accomplished courtiorS, and lived to experience tho ingratitude and injustice of the princes they had served ; both experienced many changes of fortune, and lived to an extreme old ago, so as to behold their heirs in the third generation. Both wore opposed to the reigning favorites, for the enmity of the Duke of Ormond and Buckingham was at least equal to that of the Earl of Ormond and Lord Leicester. As Buckingham was believed to have instigated Blood in his attempt on the Duke of Ormond, so Leicester was known to have attempted the assassination of Ormond, by moans of a hired cut-throat, who was afterwards, like Blood, forgiven mid rewarded. The following anecdote is very cluna7toristie :—Tho Earl of Ormond coming ono day to court, met Lord Leicester in the antechamber : after the usual salutations, " My lord," said Leicester, insolently, 4, I dreamed of you last night 1." "Indeed t" replied Ormond, "what could your lordship dream of rite ?" "I dreamed that I gave you a box on the ear." "Dreams are interpreted by contraries," replied the high spirited Irishman, and instantly lent him a cuff on the oar, which made the favorite stagger; for this ho was committed to the tower by Elizabeth. CALAVAIt; or The Knight or the Conquest: a Romance of stances,—but when seen, winding around the heart of Mexico. Philadelphia: Carey, Lea & Blanchard. 1834.	the render in spite of himself,—a beautiful, modest, Wu° reads an American book ? was tauntingly asked heroic boy,—and yet a girl,—the discovery of whose some years since, by the Edinburg or Quarterly Re- sex, though anticipated, does not beam upon the reader view,—we do not recollect which,—nor is it important until towards the latter end of the story. By the way, to know. For the present we will answer the question there is something very strange and improbable in the somewhat in the Hibernian or Yankee style, by a re- idea, that this same sweet creature should have waited mark which is not exactly responsive ; and that is, that upon her own lover in the assumed character of page if Sir Walter Scott himself were living, he would have	lover, not to know it. It is alto. or servant, and he, the the candor and honor to acknowledge that "Calavar" gether too marvellous, and the author of "Calavar" was vastly superior to sonic five or six of the last litter ought not to have drawn such a heavy draft upon the of his own great genius, and not very far behind the reader's credulity. As to Don Amador de Leste, he is very best, of' those renowned perfbrmances which have in fact the hero of the story ; instead of that demented thrown a classic glory over the bleak hills and barren melancholy uncle whose name gives the title to the romoors of Scotland. But whether that would have been nuance, but whose agency in it is of very little importhe award of Sir Walter or »ot, impartial critics on tence, and whose wild and mournful aberration of mind both sides of the Atlantic, and coining generations, if attracts less of admiration than pity, sometimes mill" Calavar" should escape the vortex of oblivion,—will gled with a feeling allied to disgust. The character of undoubtedly render a judgment somewhat similar. It Befell° too, half knave and half conjurer, is, we think, is certainly the very best American novel, excepting somewhat of a failure; perhaps not altogether so, for perhaps one or two of Mr. Cooper's, which we have I he relieves the mind rpm) the co»templatio» of speetaever read ; that is, if boldness of design, vigor or des of blood and misery,—and that of itself is a rethought, copiousness and power of language,—:thril- freshment for which we ought to be thankful. ling incident, and graphic and magnificent description,	Notwithstanding these strictures, which impartial can constitute a good novel. For the first fifty or sixty justice required, we still maintain the opinion that pages, it is confessedly somewhat heavy ; still the Calavar is the production of a man of great capacity. reader will perceive that a master spirit is at work, to If he follows up this first effort by corresponding sue-whose guidance he confidingly trusts. In a short time cess in the region of historical romance, he will assured-the whole interest of the narrative rushes upon him; ly outstrip all his competitors on this side of the Atkin-he gazes in imagination upon the beautiful and Eden- tic. The history of the conquest of Mexico, affords an like vallies of Mexico ; he throbs with pain at the spec- admirable field for the novelist; and in the faithful de-Lade of slaughtered thousands of the brave aborigines,• lineation of Cortez, the extraordinary spirit who di-and he sympathises with the tender sorrows and heroic rested the work of devastation and surmounted almost sufferings of the only female who figures in the story, superhuman difficulties in his triumphant carcer,—we and she too in the unwomanly garb of a page, destined think that the author of "Calavar" has been wonder-to perform the somewhat curious, and certainly very fully successful. unthankful office, of n menial to her own lover.. Here we	We forbear making quotations from the work, or en- think the author has decidedly failed,—we mean in the tering into a inure minute analysis of the story. Our invention and arrangement of his story. He is entirely chief object is to inform our readers that " Calavar" is too unnatural even for romance, There is too much im- an American production, which win not shrink from probable and miraculous agency in the various life-pre- competition with the very best European works of the serving expedients, and extraordinary rescues which same character. Faults it has, and some of them oh-are constantly occurring,—and which, although taken vious and censurable; but its display of intellectual singly, do not surpass the strange events of actual life, power and its various beauties arc so transcendent, that shock us nevertheless by their perpetual succession, and its blemishes arc lost like specks upon the orb of tiny. impart to a tale founded upon historical truth, an air of	The description of the flight of the Spaniards over oriental fiction which is not agreeable. The author, the dike of Tacuba, and of the horrors of the "Melan- who is vastly superior to Cooper in dialogue, is, we fear, choly night," so called in history, is awfully sublime. equally unqualified with that writer, to depict the fe- In truth the whole work abounds in powerful delinea- male character in all its exquisite traits and attractive Lion both of character and scenery, and it is with pride graces—else why not give us more than a mere glimpse that we hail it as at once assuming and commanding a at the daughter of Montezuma, (the beloved of the mei- proud rank in the department of historical romance. anclioly Dc Morla,) whose image we behold as in a "glass darkly," and whose wretched fate we regard with the less anguish, knowing so little as we do of the fair and unfortunate victim, Even Jacinto is a myste- rious and shadowy, though lovely being, with whom we have not, and cannot well have much sympathy. Some few passages indeed, illustrate the disguised princess with great force,—and throughout there is an unac- countable anxiety felt towards her ; but she is not suf- ficiently presented in the foreground of the picture, to awaken a positive and powerful interest in her behalf Jacinto, alias Leila, is nevertheless a most delightful vision,—seen always under very unfavorable circum- • disclosed to his Landlord and Valet de Chambre, the astounding fact, that he had blundered into the heart of France without a passport, the former fell back from him three paces. At the same moment, his affectionate and grateful servant, by a like instinctive impulse, advanced three paces towards him. The fall of Charles I, presented to his adherents a ease somewhat analogous. History tells us that they were variously affected by it. Some fell back in dismay, while others found themselves drawn more closely toward his exiled son. The former soon found that the successful party had rewards in store for timely. submission and zealous service. The latter, driven from their last rallying point, by the fatal battle of Worcester, did but submit, and that. with undisguised reluctance, to what was inevitable. Mr. Bancroft seems to think ho does honor to our an cestors, by assigning them a place among the former, Now we had always supposed that their true place was among the latter, and we had moreover a sort of pride in so supposing. There ere those who will say that there is great arrogance in thus claiming for them a place among the generous and bravo and faithful. Others will call it folly to insist, at this day, on their fidelity to a king, and especially to one who had lost all means of rewarding, or oven of using their zeal. We beg leave to set off these imputations ngainst each other. We beg to be allowed to speak of our fathers as they were ; and trust that one half of those who shall cavil at the character we impute to them, will acquit us of any very high presumption, when they see that we only claim for them such qualities, as the other half say we ought to be ashamed of If the same individual is sometimes found assailing us, alternately on both grounds, his consistency in so doing is his affair, not A HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, from the Discovery of toe American Continent to the present dm ; by George Bancroft. Vol. I. pp. 508. Boston: Charles Bowen. London : R. J. Kennett. The interest we have felt in this work, is the true muse of our seeming neglect of it. This may appear paradoxical, but is easily explained. In taking up the book, we naturally turned to that part of which we knew most, and in which we took the greatest interest, There was always something in the early history of Virginia on which we delighted to dwell, and we promised ourselves great pleasure iron the contemplation of the character of our forefathers, a we expected to find it portrayed by a diligent historian, who had already acquired the character of a fine writer. We did indeed find what was intended to be a favorable account, of our ancestors. Yet we were disappointed. 'Ye found much of direct praise. Yet we were disappointed. We ought perhaps to feel obliged, by Mr. B's disposition to speak kindly of our forefathers, even while his npplauses grate upon our feelings. But we are unfortunately constituted. What. Mr. Bancroft gives as praise, we cannot accept as praise ; and, what is worse, we cannot help suspecting, in all such cases, that a sneer, or something more mischievous, is intended. Sterne, in his Sentimental Journey, tells us, that when on his way from Calais to Paris, he aceidentally ours. If we know anything (and we think we do) of the character of the early settlers of Virginia, they were a chivalrous and generous race, ever ready to resist the strong, to help the weak, to comfort the afflicted, and to lift up the fallen. In this spirit they had withstood the usurpation of Cromwell while resistance was practicable, and, when driven from their native country, they had bent their steps toward Virginia, as that part f the foreign dominions of England, where the spirit of loyalty was strongest. We learn from Holmes, vol. i. p. 315, that the population of Virginia increased about fifty per cent. during the troubles. The newmers were loyalists, who were added to a population loyal. Could they, without dishonor, have been rty in favor of the new order of things 7 They whose principles had driven them into exile ? They who, hest they remained, would have fought and fallen •ith Montrose 7 The historical compends with which our youth was' tiliar, had taught us to form this estimate of the early elders of Virginia ; and we had the more faith in it, because it accords with the hereditary prejudices and prepossessions of the present day. It accounts too, for those peculiarities which, at this moment, form the distinctive features of the Virginian character. It is unique. Whether for better or worse, it differs essenally from that of every other people under the sun. How long it shall be before the "march of mind," as it s called, in its Juggernaut ear, shall pass over us, and 							 crush and obliterate every trace of what our ancestors were, and what we ourselves have been, is hard to say. It may postpone that evil day, to resist any attempt to impress us with false notions of our early history, and the character of our ancestors.						de facto; because the above mentioned Act I, directs that all writs shall issue in the name of the assembly. But it is equally clear that he was; at least tacitly, acknowledged as king de jure ; that the government.was established provisionally, and subject to his pleasure ; and that the power assumed was held FOR HIM.	 We had never looked narrowly into the cpntemporary authority for the traditions and histories dint have						Now when we consider these things ; when we find Robertson, on the authority of Beverley and Chalmers,	 come down to us. Mr. Bancroft's account of the matter has led us to do so. Hence our delay to notice his work. Our research has been rewarded by the pleasure of finding full confirmation of all our preconceived notions.						saying that "as Sir William Berkeley refused to act	 The point in contest between Mr. Bancroft and the received histories is this:						under an usurped authority, they (the assembly) boldly erected the royal standard, and acknowledging Charles	 The histories represent Virginia as having been loyal to the last ; as having stood in support of the title of						II to be their lawful sovereign, proclaimed him with all his titles;" we may doubt the accuracy of the statement, in extols°, but we cannot agree that even that statement shall be stigmatized as a fiction.	 Charles II, after every other part of the British domi-						Mr. Hening tells us (1 Sts. p. 513) that Beverley was near the scene of action, and wonders that he	 nions had submitted to Cromwell, and as having been the first to renounce the authority of the protector, and						should have misunderstood or misrepresented. Wonder-	 return to their allegiance. All this Mr. Bancroft denies; and all this, except the last, proposition, (that in italics) we affirm. In proof, we appeal to the very authorities on which Mr. Bancroft relies.						ful indeed it would have been ; for in March 1662, we find him clerk to the House of Burgesses. See 2 Hen.	 Indeed, we are at a loss to know how he himself escaped the conclusion against which he protests so strong-						Sts. p. 162. We find too, in the same volume, p. 544,	 ly. It may not be true that Charles II was proclaimed						that Berkeley refused to act. without the advice of the council ; that on receiving this he agreed to act, and	 in Virginia, as Robertson says, before he had been recognized in England. Mr. Honing (1 Sts. at Large, p.						that "iiis declaration. TO BE governor (not the act elect-	 529, quoted by Bancroft) may be right, when he says, that, if such were the fact, the public records should show it. But his book is full of proof that the records are incomplete. Is there not such proof in this instance? Let us examine.						ing him) were PROCLAIMED by order of the assembly." Berkeley (be it remembered) was the last royal govern-	 The first. act of the session of March 1660, assumes the supreme power. The second appoints Sir William						or, and his commission had never been revoked, his	 Berkeley governor, and prescribes dint he shall govern						election is not for any specific term, and the act is accompanied with a condition that he shall call an assem-	 according to the "auncient lawes of England, and the established lawes" of Virginia. The third repeals all						bly at least once in every Iwo years. How is this, if lie was only elected to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Mathews, who, just one year before, had been elected to serve two years. Is not Berkeley in of his old commission	 laws inconsistent with "the power now established ;" and the fourth makes it penal to "say or act anything in derogation" of the government thus established.						But of the loyalty of Virginia there can be no doubt. That this was in no wise abated by the fall of Charles	 Here is evidence enough of a new order of things, and yet it is not so very clear what that new order was.						1, and the exile of his son, is equally certain. The act,	 Honing says (ubi supra) that Berkeley was elected just as Xalhews lied been. Wherein then was the innovation ? The recital in the preamble of the act last. quoted, (1 Hen. Sts. p. 531) may give a clue to this.						passed immediately after, making it high treason to justify the murder of the one, or to deny the title of the	 It is there set forth that "it bath been thought necessary and convenient by the present Burgesses of this						other, puts that out of dispute. They certainly did	 Assembly, the representatives of the people, during the						not stand out, when the battle of Dunbar and the fall of Montrose had left the loyal party without hope	 time of these distractions, to take the government into their own power, with the conduct of the auncient lawes of Eng-						either in England or Scotland. But look at the very act of surrender. Study its terms, and see the temper displayed there. Do they acknowledge the authority of	 land, till such lawfull commission or commissions appear to us, as wee may DUTIFULLY submit to, according us by DECLARATION SET FORTH BY US dont MORE AMPLY appeare."						parliament or protector? No: they do but submit to power. There is no profession of allegiance, nor was any	 Now where is this MORE AMPLE DECLARATION, concerning their idea of such a commission as they might DUTIFULLY submit to? Is not here an hiatus valde deflendus I Yet. such are the tattered manuscripts from which Mr. Hcning's compilation is made, that the loss of the whole or a part of any document is quite common.						oath of allegiance ever administered during the com-	 Enough appears, however, to show that this declaration did not amount to a recognition of Charles as king						monwealth. They engage indeed so to administer their power as not to contravene "the government of the	 						commonwealth of England, and the lawes there estab-	 						lished." But this was a proceeding which a respect for private rights required. They stipulate moreover, that Virginia shall enjoy as free a trade as England herself, and put an end to all the authority of commissions from England. It was by> such commissions that the	 						king had governed. That "government by commis-	 						sions and instructions" is declared to be for the future "null and void." The usurper had clutched the scep-	 						tre of the king of England. That of the king of Vir-	 						ginia he was not allowed to touch. Accordingly no more commissions came from England. We hear no	 						more of them until the election of Berkeley. We are then told that the government is provisional, and only to endure until a lawful commission shall appear. What	 							 							 							 							 							 							 							 							 commission? Whose? The protector's? The parliament's? No. The act of surrender (1 Hen. St. p. 363) had abolished them. But it had not abolished the rights of the king; and the power of the assembly and governor is thus made to wait on them. Strange as it may seem, the act of surrender contains no word recognizing the rightful authority of the parliament, nor impeaching that of the king. On the contrary, as if to exclude any such idea, this remarkable clause is inserted: "That there be one sent home, at the present governor's choice, to give an accompt to ins IthOTIE, of the surrender of ms countrey." Home ! There is a simple pathos in the use of this word here, which speaks volumes to the heart. None can feel more deeply than we do, how utterly unworthy of this steady and passionate loyalty, was the wretch who was its object. But they knew not his faults. They only knew him in his lineage and his misfortunes; and though he had no place to lay his head, yet wherever their messenger might find the outcast, there was the home of their hearts. We mean nothing profane. God forbid ! But we cannot help being reminded of the weak warm-hearted boy, who stood by his master's cross, and gazed with looks of love upon his dying face, when the stronger and bolder of his followers had "forsaken him and fled." We are more proud to be descended from the men who stood forward in the business of that day, than we should be to trace ourselves to Adam, through all the most politic and prudent self-seekers that the world has ever seen. But to return to Mr. Bancroft. Affairs being thus settled, things went on quite peaceably ; and lie hence infers that the Virginians were entirely reconciled to Cromwell and his parliament. Moreover, lie finds them claiming the supreme power, as residing in the colonial legislature; and from this he most strangely infers a loyalty to the parliament, the model of which he represents them as so eager to copy. Now Mr. Bancroft himself tells us (p. 170) that as early as 1619, Virginia first set the world the example of equal representation. From that time they held that the supreme power was in the hands of the colonial parliament, then established, and the king as king of Virginia. Now the authority of the king being at an end, and no successor being acknowledged, it followed as a corollary from their principles that no power remained but that of the assembly ; and so they say. Does this look like a recognition of Cromwell and his parliament, or the reverse? But Mr. Bancroft seems to think that Virginia could not have failed to be weaned from her attachment to the king, and won over to Cromwell and his parliament, by the magnanimity and justice of their proceedings. He adverts to the article in the treaty of surrender, by which Virginia had stipulated for a trade as free as that of England, and assures us that "its terms were faithfully observed till the restoration." (p. 241.) He adds at p. 246, that "the navigation act of Cromwell was not designed for the oppression of Virginia, and was not enforced within her borders." Hence he says (p. 241) that the pictures drawn by Beverley, Chalmers, Robertson, Marshall, and Holmes, of the discontent produced by commercial oppression, are all "pure fiction." Now what says the reader to the following extract * The characters and principles of those gentlemen may throw some light on the subject. If we can ascertain those of the mem- from a memorial on behalf of the trade of Virginia, laid before Cromwell in 1656? "What encouragement the poor planter has had to sweeten his labor, since the Dutch were excluded trade, appears by the general complaint of them all, that they are the merchant's slaves, who will allow them scarce a half-penny a pound for their tobacco. Beside that, since the Dutch trade was prohibited, till this year there has been a great deal of their tobacco left behind for want of fraught, and spoiled, to the almost undoing of divers of them." * * * "This is an inconveniency which has attended. that act for navigation," "but unless it. be a little dispensed withal, it will undoubtedly ruin part, of the trade it was intended to advance. 'Tis true the people of themselves, some of them at least, have this year endeavored their -own relief by secret trade with the Dutch," &c. &c. Is not this decisive? If it does not prove the fact, it at least proves the complaint. Mr. Bancroft denies both. Perhaps this paper is a forgery. Perhaps Mr. Bancroft never saw it. YES ICE DID. It is the same paper to which he refers at p. 247, note 2, in the very paragraph in which he says that Cromwell's •navigation act was not designed for, nor enforced in Virginia. Mr. 13. indeed says " the war between England and Holland necessarily interrupted the intercourse of the Dutch with the English colonies." But this memorial is of the year 1656, and peace had been concluded April 15, 1654. Robertson speaks of the colonial governors during the interregnum, as having been named (that is his word) by Cromwell. This is roundly denied. On what authority ? None. The election proves nothing certainly. It might have been a mere form, though it was probably something more. But what was easier than a recommendation which it would be perhaps best to conform to? How often was the speaker of the house of commons so chosen in England? Mr. Bancroft's view of this matter stands thus: gi»ia elected her own governors. Bennett, Digges, and Mathews, were commonwealth's men. She freely chose them as governors. Ergo. She had gone over to the commonwealth. Now there is no proof of either of these propositions. We doubt both. For if it were established that these gentlemen were, as we suspect, forced on the colony, it would not be clear that they were therefore commonwealth's men. We doubt very much whether any such were to be found. They might have been the least violent among the royalists, and therefore preferred. Of Col. Bennett, we know something traditionally. The idea that lie was a parliamentarian is new to us. We should require some better proof than the Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society. He was indeed, one of the parliamentary commissioners at the time of the surrender. So was Claiborne, a warm friend and favorite of Sir William Berkeley, continued in his office of secretary of state, by the legislature, at Berkeley's request, after his restoration. 1 Hen. Sts. p. 547. Bennett himself retained his place at the council board, where he still found himself, as before the restoration, in the company of cavaliers, such as Morrison, Yardly, Ludlow, &c. &c.* If then Bennett was, as we conjecture, recommended to the assembly by the parliamentary commissioners, What induced them to choose him? The answer is given by Mr. Bancroft at p. 241. He had become ob- bers of the council, elected by the assembly, we shall have a clue to the temper of the assembly itself. Wo may know the tree by its fruit. If we find that body electing to a place in the council men of very decided political character, we shall have a right to believe that those associated with them by the vote of the same body were, at least, not zealous members of the opposite party. In this case the maxim " noseitur a socio,” will surely apply. Let us see what lights we can bring to hear on this subject. In Churchill's voyages (vol. vi. p. 171) is "A Voyage to Virginia, by Col. Norwood.” Ile was a cavalier, and came over in Company with Francis Morrison, also a cavalier. Norwood was also a kinsman of Berkeley. Arriving here, they found Sir Henry Chichely, Col. Vanity, Wormely, and Ludlow, whom they recognized as old friends and cavaliers. Now in the council elected along with Bennett, immediately after the surrender, we find two of these gentlemen, Vanity and Ludlow. The latter had been a member of Berkeley's council that had concurred (October 1649) in declaring it to be high treason to defend the proceedings of parliament against Charles 1, or to deny the title of his son. West, the lirst named member of Bennett's council, had occupied the same place in that of Berkeley. Pettus and Bernard were also members of both. We might conjecture that they had dissented from the act referred to, if we did not find them associated with Vanity and Ludlow. We find too Mat Harwood, who had been speaker of the assembly of October 1649, was also one of Bennett's council. The whole nun-her was thirteen, and hero are six notorious royalists. Of what complexion could the other seven have been ? Two of them, Taylor and Freeman, were members of the assembly of 1647, from two most loyal counties. In July, 1653, Col. Walter Chiles, who had been a member in October 1649, was speaker. In November, 1654, Col. Edward hill, another of them, was speaker. He was in high favor after the restoration. He was transferred to the council in 1655. Wo find the name of Charles Norwood, as clerk of the assembly, from that time. In March, 1655, Col. Thomas Dew was a member of the council. Ho had been speaker of the assembly in 1632, the first elected under Bennett. We A-noto (we do not ask historians to tell us this) that ho was a loyal clansman, who was driven to Virginia by his hatred of the usurpers, and to accommodate his name to English orthography, changed the spelling from that of " Dint”—since made familiar to all readers of poetry—by Sir Walter Scott. He Is now (in 1655) in the council, making in that body seven known loyalists. In the legislature of that year, we have the name of Sir henry Chichely. In 1656, Col. Morrison (the companion of Ludlow's voyage) is speaker. In the next assembly (1658) John Smith was speaker. Wo know nothing certainly of him ; but it was that assembly that deposed Mathews. They gave him Berkeley's friend, Claiborne, as secretary of state ; and for councillors, among others, West, Pettus, Hill, Dew, and Bernard. They made some changes, but turned out none of that party. At the same time they introduced Col. John Carter, another of Norwood's friends. He had been chairman of the committee, on the report of which the assembly had just acted. Horsmenden, another of the same ma. Millet), was elected to the council at the same time.	• In March 1659, Hill, who had left his place in the council, is again speaker. In March 1660, the assembly which reinstated Berkeley, retained Bennett and five other of the old councillors, of whose characters wo have no other indication. These were Robins, Perry, Walker, Read, and Wood. What they were may be inferred from this fact. Morrison, moreover, was elected at the same time.	• Can we believe, In the face of these facts, that the loyalty of Virginia ever wavered ? That it bowed before the storm we know. That the assembly, in one Instance, passed a vote of disfranchisement against the author of a seditious paper, appears in 1 Hen. Sts. p. 380. But we also find that this vote was reversed as soon as they heard of the death of Oliver Cromwell. noxious to Berkeley, and had been "compelled to quit Virginia." For what does not appear. Hardly for disloyalty. In 1 Hen. Sts. p. 235, we have his name and that of Mathews signed to a paper of as enthusiastic loyalty as was ever penned, presented to the king after his rupture with parliament. But what reason have we for supposing this interference with the freedom of election? We answer that our reasons arc twofold. 1. The authority of Robertson, who relies on Beverley and Chalmers, and doubtless consulted all the authori- ties lie could find, is entitled to some weight. Had he said the governors were appointed by Cromwell, we should know that he spoke at random. But his use of .the equivocal word "named," shows that he knew what he was talking about, and considered what he was saying. 2. But in Hen. Sts. 499 to 505, is an evidence that we think conclusive. Mathews took it into his head to dissolve the assembly. They immediately voted the act a nullity, and civilly invited the Governor to go on with the business. To this he assented, revoking the order, but proposing to " referre the dispute of the power of dissolving and the legality thereof to his Highness° the Lord Protector." This was in 1058, and the Lord Protector was then Richard Cromwell, and not Oliver, under whom Mathews had been elected. The house took fire immediately at this proposed appeal, and deposed Mathews, and having solemnly declared the "power of government" to reside in themselves, they re-elect him, saying that he is " BY us invested" with the office. Now what did this mean, if circumstances had not been such as justify the notion entertained by Mathews that he derived his authority from some other source, so as to have the right of dissolving the assembly. Had there been no interference on the part of Cromwell, this whole proceeding would have been idle and ridiculous. Yet it is obviously the proceeding of men not disposed to trifle, and who well understood what they were about. Now compare this peremptory proceeding with that which took place soon after on the death of Mathews. Richard Cromwell had then abdicated, and there was therefore no shadow of authority in England to restrain the action or the assembly. But what do they do ? They elect Sir William Berkeley provisionally, making the continuance of his authority and their own to determine on the coming of a "lawful commission." Now, such commission, as we have already shown, could only come from the king ; it was his plan of government ; it had not been practiced by the parliament ; and the right to exercise it had been denied to them and renounced by them. Does not this conduct of the assembly show that they anticipated the restoration of one whose right they had always maintained? So far, we have done little more than to express our dissent from Mr. Bancroft's conclusions. In a single instance, to which we have adverted, he must be suspected of wilfully misrepresenting his authorities. We allude to the memorial addressed to Cromwell in favor of the trade of Virginia, of which he was certainly aware, and which clearly disproves his own statement. Had this been the only instance of the sort, we should have passed it over more lightly. But it does not stand alone. I-ins main drift, in his account of these transactions, seems to be, to show that Virginia had taken tl-e infection of Republicanism ; that she was effectually weaned from her allegiance ; that she desired nothing but to set up for herself; and that the use she proposed to make of the abdication of Richard, and the consequent suspension of executive power in England, was to establish the supremacy of her legislature. In this view the assembly are represented as requiring of Berkeley the distinct acknowledgment of their authority, which he, we arc told, recognized without a scruple. " I am" said he, " but the servant of the assembly." Now what will the reader say when he reads the passage from which these words arc copied. It runs thus : " You desire me to do that concerning your titles and claims to land in this northern part of America, which I am in no capacity to do ; for I am but the servant of the assembly : neither do they arrogate to themselves any power, farther than the miserable distractions in England force them to. For when God shall be pleased to take away and dissipate the unnatural divisions of their native country, they will immediately return to their pro- fessed obedience." Is this an assertion of the supremacy of the assembly ? Is it not the very reverse ? He disclaims any power to act in a certain behalf. Why Because he is but the servant of the assembly ; he has no power but what is given by them, and they do not pretend to have any such to give. .0n their principles, they could not. Looking for the restoration, they expected " some commission" by which any authority they could establish would be superseded ; their provisional government was the result of necessity, and its powers were limited to the nature of that necessity. Every thing that could wait was made to wait. What is the meaning of this strange attempt to per- vert the truth of history, and to represent Virginia as being as far gone in devotion to the parliament as Massachusetts herself? Why does it come to us, sweetened with the language of panegyric, from those who love us not, and who habitually scoff at and deride us? Is it intended to dispose us to acquiesce in the new notion, "that the people of the colonies, all together, formed one body politic before the revolution ?" Against this proposition we feel bound to protest. We hold ourselves prepared to maintain the negative.against all corners and goers, with tongue and pen ; and to resist the practical results, if need be, with stronger weapons. When Virginians shall learn to kiss the rod of power ; to desert their friends in trouble, and to take part with the strong against the weak, it will then be in character to disparage the memory of our forefathers, and to say, they were even such as ourselves. But until we have done something to dishonor our lineage, let us speak of them as they were, "Faithful among the faithless ; Among the faithless, faithful only. they.” We have said nothing of Mr. Bancroft's style. It is our duty as critics to take some notice of it ; and, we apprehend, he might think himself wronged if we did not. ' He is obviously very proud of it ; and, in saying this, we fear we have condemned it. An ambitious style is certainly not the style for history. To say nothing of the frequent sacrifice of perspicuity to orna ment, there is a tone in it which excites distrust. We find ourselves, we know not how, diffident of statements which come to us in the language of declamation, antithesis and epigram. In our boyhood Hume's history was put into our hands ; and we remember our surprise at hearing something said in praise of his style. Style! ! Was that style? A plain story, told just as we should have told it ourselves Partridge would as soon have thought of admiring Garrick's acting. The king was the actor for his money, and Mr. Bancroft's would then have been the style for ours. We have no doubt, for example, we should have been delighted with the following passage, introduced into a description which closes the author's remarks on the very question we have been discussing. We give it for the benefit of any of our young friends, who may be preparing an oration for the fourth of July. It would be nothing amiss, on such an occasion, for a " moonish youth" not yet out of his first love scrape. But from a grave historian, with a beard on his chin, we cannot approve it. We give it as a sample. Ex pede Herculem. "The humming-bird, so brilliant in its plumage, and so delicate in its form, quick in motion, yet not fearing the presence of man, haunting about the flowers, like the bee gathering honey, rebounding from the blossoms out of which it sips the dew, and as soon returning" to renew its many addresses to its delightful objects, " was ever admired as the smallest and the most beauti- ful of the feathered race."	• Alas! Alas! If this is the way to write history, we fear we shall have to leave our northern neighbors to tell the story their own way. It is a hard case. Let them write our books, and they become our masters. But we cannot help ourselves. We cannot contend with those who can write history in this style. Our only defence is not to read. A more effectual security would be, not to buy. In that case they would not write ; and we should not only avoid being led into error, but might escape the injury of being misrepresented to others. But Mr. Bancroft's book is in print, and we must abide the mortification of having all who may read it, think of our ancestors as he has represented them. We have comfort in believing that they will not be very numerous. 