seek a dwelling in some humbler town. Shortly after his removal to Merton my mother died, and the contracted expenses of his diminished establishment, and the income from a small pffice which he held, enabled him to support himself in comfort. My father was exceedingly reserved in his temper, and generally-left my conduct to my own control, and my indliaations and feelings to their natural course. Though not particularly literary in his taste, he had a fine library which contained godd editions of all the best classics of ancient and modern literature. This room was my favourite resort from my earliest years. The loneliness of my situation compelled me to seek some employment to divert my time, and I found abundance there. I read whatever fell in my way without much reference to system or utility. I found literature the best refuge from the fatigue of thought and the yet, greater fatigue of idleness. My constant devotion generated a love for reading which, after a long lapse of years, still remains in all its force. My books became my constant companions, for I found in the silent instructors that were ranged around my walls, calmer disputants and wiser counsellors than the living 'circle of acquaintance could exhibit. Making study both a business and an amusement, I drew from the same sources the topic of my toil and the light of my leisure ;—perceiving, with D'Aguesseau, that the best relaxation was change. My most habitual delight, however, was in the productions of the muse; to them I turned as to a shady valley, for. refreshment after every Weariness and repose from every anxiety. The effusions of the highest sort of poetry, which are Wisdom speaking in the voice of Pleasure, are the best diversion in hours of gayety, and the best solace in times of trouble. I, at this time, went rarely into company of any sort; for the meditations which engaged my mind, and the sentiments which employed my feelings, had neither their origin nor their sphere in the outer world around me, and in the sensitive temper of my natural disposition, I found much to detach me from society and much to induce me to my study. I call to mind one occasion on which I accepted an invitation to tea at the house of one of my acquaintances. It was in August, and the broad summer sun was Yet gleaming through the trees, as I ascended the steps of the little portico in front of the dwelling, and descried, by ear and eye,' the youthful company asseinbled in the drawing-room. As I entered the apartment and approached the gaily-dressed group which was col- lected near the windows in animated converogion, my eye fell upon one female countenance which was not fit- miliar to me, and whose deep, dark glance, as with one flash it met my own, roused,a feeling in my breast, before unknown, and seemed in an instant to create a sense within me and an atmosphere around me, which gave me consciousness as of another being. I inquired from the lady of the house, the, name of her stranger guest. She told me that she was a resident of the same village with myself, who had been absent for several years and had recently returned ; and taking me up to her, presented me to her as Emily Wilson. As I came nearer to her, I thought that I had never seen features at once so exqui- site in form, and so interesting in expression. There was in her eye a passion combined with timidness, which agitated and attracted ; and while its fearfulness forbade its trembling glance to fix for more than an instant on what it gazed at, its fervour fitted it in that instant to pierce and penetrate to the depths of the bosom. A proposal was presently made that the party should walk out into the adjoining grounds to look at the beauty of the sunset. Lingering behind the rest, Emily and my- self followed, until a diverging path, striking off through the thick shrubbery, enabled us to take a course which led to a sequestered part of the, lawn, where our con vet. sation might, not be overheard. From the first moment that I had spoken to her, my sense had been wrapped in an intensity of interest that scarcely left me capacity to note what I was saying. The lapse of moments, and the diversion of the splendid scene on high, which brought the brightest magnificence of heaven to abate the engrossment of the best lustre of earth, conveyed a mare intelligent appreciation of the new feeling which possessed me. While we talked of the scene before us, yet having an earnest reference to unspoken sentiments within, and * while the similarity of the unseen light, in which external objects were regarded, proved an inward sympathy which was yet unuttered, there thrilled through my veins the depths of a joy which had hitherto been a stranger to what I knew of bliss, and I recognised as among the conditions of life a broad and full and fervent gladness, to whose robustness of delight my past experience brought no parallel. In the impression of that moment, I apprehended how tenuous, shadowy, and like the stuff of dreams, is the gratification of that airy company of borrowed thoughts, which till then, had been my sole delight : and I learned that the mental life which is founded on what is alien and fed on what is foreign, is but half vital. That ideal world which our own passions create around us, and which is peopled with interests drawn ' from the recesses of our own breasts, has a tone of strength which is unknown to the visions of fancy. I found that the sphere with which my lonely meditations had encircled me, was animated with only the moving shadows of those feelings whose substances were now around me, and that the forms which there were only modelled in design, were here carved in reality. Our t onversation was protracted in forgetfulness of the advancing' evening; and it was not until the opposite quarter of the heaven was glittering with its stars that we rejoined the party which had returned to the house. I left the company early ; but it was with an ardour of soul and a strength of aspiration which made me far other than I was before, that I trod the path which led me home. I was even as if a new spirit had entered into " mounting spirit," that filled me with ambition, and impelled me to pass from meditation to action. I felt that it was to Emily that I was indebted for the new power with which I was filled, and that in her society alone could I look for that energy of interest without which henceforth existence would be a dull and dreary thing. In the heart of every man that loves, there is an instinctive impulse that urges him to covet glory in the eyes of her whom he would attach, and I now felt that to attain an eminence which would excite the admiration of Emily would be both delightful in labour and plenteous in reward. She was wealthy and distinguished, while I was poor and unconsidered, and the native pride which there is in all the passions, forbade me to approach her, except in the character of one who could offer in position as much as she asked in peron. To work out so rich a gain, and dwell ever after in the fulness of the gladness I had won, seemed to insure an exhaustless bliss for all my coming lite.. For any purpose and on any spur I felt that I had energies to 'grapple with all disasters and difficulties; and with so bright a star to gild my course, high shining from its bright conclusion, there was nothing which could parallel the pleasure of my toils. I called to mind the names and deeds of those who had succeeded in life as statesmen and men of action ; and I finind within my bosom a courage which might buffet such seas of danger as they contended with. I pondered earnestly the means of acquiring what I so much desired, and canvassed all the paths which the progress of the world throws open to the daring and the active. I perceived that the time had gone by in which a man may acquire by action, the sudden and romantic fame for, which I panted. Modern tactics have reduced the wonders of the warrior to a mere calculation of figures upon paper. The employments .of the state, either political or diplomatic, demand the devotion of a life-time, and the period of happiness is passed ere the sources of happiness are reached. It seemed to me, in reference as well to the advantages of the time, as to my own peculiar wishes, that the trophies of intellect that are acquired by the author's toil were more wort*y of endeavour than any other species of renown. To the power which is exhibited in literature, there is attributed an undefined and mysterious depth and extent, which are not suggested by the vouchers, on which in other dipartments, genius founds its claim to greatness. A given amount of ability, exhibited in the composition ob a volume, impresses us more strongly than the same degree of talent evinced in the taking of a city or the settlement of a treaty ; for these occur to us as single' achievements of greatness which many circumstances have united to accomplish, and which some- accidents may directly have produced, while the other gives evidence of the possession of a power which may be exerted upon all other subjects with equal certainty of success. In literary creation, it is less the act than the ability which it implies, that attracts our admiratiofi. A triumph in the field, or in the cabinet, implies only a victory, over persons, and the advantage may, have been gained as much by the errors of the, vanquished, as *by the skill of the conqueror ; but the ,rerputation of the poet is the test of inherent and essential strength, for he deals with subjects that are constant in the character of their difficulty, and what he has done once he may do always. While I was thus occupied in conceiving and digesting my designs of life, an occurrence took place which was peculiarly .opportune for the fulfilment of my schemes. My father received, through the influence of some of his friends, an appointment from the government, which promised him a handsome annual income, but required' him to fix his residence in the south. In communicating to me information of this change in his arrangements, he stated that it was his intention to leave me at (*liege in the north, and afterwards to allow me to make choice of what mode of life I thought most desirable. • This intelligence gave me high satisfaction, for the course, of living which it laid open was precisely suited to the accomplishment of my wishes. It afforded me unfettered opportunity to exert my talents as I chose, and, left me afterwards to follow up my success as I saw fit. Viewing the field which was thus laid' before me, and satisfying 'myself of the powers on which I could Mend to sustain me, I resolved to burn myself for three years in the retirement of devoted study, till I had won some honour for .my nfirne, and then, to return to Merton and claim the hand of Emily as my reward. The few days which intervened between_the intention anethe time of departure, were vent by nit father and myself in active preparations for our respective journeys. I had met Emily frequently, and without a direct avowal of the sentiments which burned so strongly within me, the tenor of conduct and conversation had abundantly dbnveyed a knowledge ' of what were my own impres- sions, and brought assurance that they were neither despised nor disliked. I deferred till the last evening the task of taking leave ()flier, and of communicating the intention of those labobrs by which I hoped to make my name, In some measure, a worthy exchange for her hand. It was late irt the evening of a fine autumnal day that I set out for her	house, which stood at no great distance frqfn roy own. The moon had been long risen,. and was looking down through the marble ruins Of its temple of the clouds, as I entered the door. It was a noble old mansion, flanked by a large cultivated garden of flowers, and surrounded towards the rear by an extena sive lawn, tastefully enriched with various sorts of forest trees and divided gracefully, by winding walks of peculiar beauty and neatness. I found Emily sitting by the window, and I thought that she welcomed me with more cordiality than she had ever exhibited before. After some conversation we walked out into the park, and passed along through the paths which twisted about the grounds until we reached the summer-house in the centre. It was a spot of singular loveliness, planted with almost every species of odorous flower, and encircled at a small distance by tall shrubbery, through the opening in whose circling branches.the cold, clear moon was pouring down the enchantment of its rays. We paused together and gazed in silence upon the deep, bright orb. There is always an intenseness of feeling attending on the evening hour ; and there is a nameless magic in that look of inanimate intelligence with which the moon gazes upon us from off her moving thrciffe, that proclaims her to be queen? not only of the ocean of deep waters that embrace the earth, but also of the sea of passions that flow deeper and mightier, in the human breast. in this moment, while the • interest of nature added fervour to the emotions of man, end while the gentle face I gazed on, and the touch of the hand wddch I held in mine, assured me Of the sympathy which awaited the utterance of what I felt, I poured out in hurried eloquence the story of my passionate love, and laid open the secret of the high ambition of the course to which my coming days were to be dedicated. While I painted the ruiness of the passion which possessed me, afid depicted the honours for which, for her sake, I woyld task mar utmost powers by night and dak, her bosoth beat with a generous delight as sanguine as my own, and with the faith of an affection which doubted nothing, she consented to all the ardour of my hopes. And when under the witness of the gazing moon, I printed tkistil upon her snow-white forehead, I felt as if the seal of our union were already affixed. In the vehemence of joy that swelled through all my frame I tasted a deep assurance of capacity to fulfil all that I had determined. Giving in her smiles the one best omen of success, and promising as long a .constancy as I might require, we walked again towards the house and I took my leave. I returned to my chamber, and spent the night in completing the preparations for my journey. CHAPTER IL In youth by science nursed, And led by nature into a wild scene Of lofty hopes, he to the world went forth A favour'd being, knowing no desire Which Genius did not hallow,—"gainst the taint Of dissolute tongues, and jealousy, and hate, And scorn,—against all enemies prepared. WoaDoworra. Ay, father !—I have had those earthly visions, And noble aspirations in my youth, To make my mind the mind of other men, The enlightener of nations; and to rise I know not whither,—it might be to fall. MANIMED. ea THE college to which" I was destined, was situated in a neighbouring city,—a position vastly better adapted for such an institution, in this country, than the more customary one of a village. It had been long established, was well endowed, and boasted a character and eminence which were rivalled by few establishments of the kind in th land. The buildings were spacious and venerable, many of the professors illusttious for their talents ftnd acquirements, the libraries large and judiciously selected, and the studentd whom I found, generally respectable for their standing and manners. In such a situation, I hoped to pass the years ilibich I should dedicate to Study, with much profit and .some pleasure. As my purposes were deeply laid, and my resolutions were not taken without a knowledge that I could keep them, I allowed nothing to occupy my thoughts or affect my plans, which had not a strict connexion with the ob'- jects of my efforts. Aware of the importance of assuming at once the ground which I meant to maintain, I determined to start such as I designed to continue. My views and feelings were different and apart from those of the persons whom I met, and neither in temper nor intention was there any community between us ; and I was accord- ingly disposed to stand aloof as much as possible. Most of the members -of the college had their residence under the same roof, and their meals were in common. Such a commixture, I quickly perceived, would be as little agreeable to my taste as to my pursuits, and I therefore deviated from the usual custom by occupying rooms where I could be alone. The sum which my father al- lowed me for my expenses was sufficiently liberal, and I hired for myself a small single house of which was the sole proprietor, and in which I could be secure from all interruption. I thus avoided the ordinary error of young men,—that of having a numerous acquaintance,—and the still more frequent and more hurtful one, of having a single friend. It is doubtless a- true sentiment of the moralists, that there are few pleasures in life more elevated or more precious, than that resulting from the wise security of friendship. I would not contradict either the many wise saws, or the few modern instances, which may be found recorded in praise of this sacred tie; but the ordinary attachments of young men, which pass, in these days, under that honoured name, are the sources of more mischief than a dozen enmities. The best that one can ex- pect of a• friend, in these degenerate times, is that he will be a person who will waste one's' time, ruffle one's temper, betray one's secrets, and assist in spending one's money. After all, to all men and at all times, the best friend is virtue, and the best companions are high endeavours and honourable sentiments. I thus withdrew myself from all that might distract my thoughts or squander my time, and devoted my days and my nights to ardent and persevering study. I had selected and brought with me the best books from my father's collection, and had the command of the library of the college. Hitherto my connexion with literature had been almost entirely in the character of a recipient. At home, I had no motive of duty to incite me to composition, and the stimulus of ambition was not yet roused in my breast. Indolence and the pursuit of mental gratification had therefore kept me content with reading what others had written, rather than spurred me to write what others might read. My sole object, now, was to obtain fame as an author, and I accordingly made writing my chief occupation. As soon as I had fixed myself in my solitary rooms, I began my labours. My first performance was slow and doubtful. I sat for the whole morning, before my table, and at the end of it had written but little. I still persevered, and by the evening had the satisfaction of finding that though my progress was still to be estimated by lines rather than by pages, yet that I had become master of my subject, and could see my way clearly before me. I resumed my pen with undiminished ardour on the following day, and soon found that what I had taken up as a painful task, was become a pleasing occupation. My work proceeded rapidly, and I became happy in the employment. I continued my habits of composition steadily and devotedly, relieving my mind occasionally by the perusal of the best English classics. I read none but the best, and I read them with the utmost attention. I studied them closely, penetrated their merits. and saw wherein their greatness consisted. I had formerly approached them with the coldness of an admirer; I now followed their steps with something of the daring of a rival. I wrote on for a long time, developing my thoughts on various subjects-, and acquiring power and ease in the use of language, but without any direct reference to puillication. Writing is as much a craft as any of the mechanic arts ; and in it as in them, one must learn the use of his tools before he can work with advantage. He must learn by practice to arrest a passing sentiment, and teach the feelings to become vocal gracefully. For weeks and months I went on in perfect enthusiasm, familiarizing to my mind the elevated conceptions of the old masters of the lyre, and instructing it by severe but grateful discipline to produce the harvest of its own cultivation. I lived in a dreamy whirl of excitement. My intellect seemed to expand. and I grasped confidently things which formerly I would not have ventured to approach. Walpole said of Gray that during certain years of his life, his mind was ‘ in flower ;" a happy illustration of the warm, and genial, and expanded state in which' the understanding sometimes finds itself. I may with propriety apply the expression to myself during this part of my time. I could take up every subject with equal facility, and to each in succession I came with a mind acute in its perceptions and ardent in its feelings. My existence was a state of the highest happiness. Sensations of undefined pleasure occupied my mind, and in the intervals of employment, the thought of her for whom I wrought, stood hy me, like a presence, lending interest to all my meditations and beauty to all my dreams. Not a moment was lost in vacancy or idleness ; for, spurred on by ambition, and lured on by love, how, could I choose but be always busy Many writers, having reference to the instinctive mirthfulness, the lively joy, " The thoughtless day, the easy night, The spirits pure, the slumbers light," which mark that period of life, have spoken of youth as the happiest portion of human existence. My own experience is different, and though my own morbidness.of feeling, and the peculiarity of my situation, may have VOL. .	 rendered my case an unfit test of the general truth, yet I am inclined to think that the experience of most persons will contradict the opinion. For myself I must confess that my mind recurs to the days of my boyhood, not without a sensation of pain. The happiest period in the life of any man, is, in my judgment, that to which my narrative now refers. In original composition there is always an intoxicating delight, and to a young man it comes coupled with the fresh pleasure of novelty, and heightened by the wildness of fancy and enthusiasm: the fates have not yet begun to weave dark threads in the web of his life ; care has not spread her damp and heavy mantle over his hopes, and experience has not yet availed to make the golden clouds of glory fade into " the light of common day." I recur to Pthese passages of my existence, whose days in passing seemed like long paradisal years, but whose years now past, seem like a short summer day, with an emotion which I cannot describe. Memory pictures to Fancy, my former self, seated by my lonely fire, ardent in study, glowing in hope, untiring In exertion ; the earth of my reality glad with a thousand gardens, the heaven of my anticipations bright with a thousand stars. My thoughts now began to look toward publication. My whole being was at this time, poetry, and I naturally thought of making my first trial in this department. I finished with the utmost rapidity a poem which I had long meditated, and by adding a few minor pieces which I had thrown off in moments of peculiar enthusiasm, I had matter enough for a respectable volume. I easily procured a. publisher, and the book appeared anonymously. My success was immediate and great : the poem was read every where, and from every quarter I heard my praises : my fondest wishes and wildest dream of popularity were scarcely unrealized by the actual reception of the book. When Mozart had finished his mortal career, and was just wavering on the brink of life, he is reported to have said to his attendants that he began to see what might be done in music. A similar feeling attaches to every one when he has completed a design upon which he has been engaged. When a literary man has just got his work concluded, he begins to see what he might have made out of his subject, and the desire of commencing another to which he can do more justice, becomes irresistibly strong. So I found it with myself: like the woodman, whp in felling an oak, gives the second stroke without waiting for the echoes of the first, I paused not to listen to the remarks upon this work before commencing .a second. After little delay I again appeared before the public. My second publication was a work of fiction, which was followed speedily by another poem. I then directed the channel of my ideas into another direction. I could turn with entire ease and pleasure to the driest and most technical subject. - It is a common mistake of authors to confine their efforts to a single branch of literature, to poetry, philosophy, or prose fiction separately. The mind by devotion to one pursuit becomes stiff, ungraceful and onesided. From every change of employment we return with renewed and freshened vigour. It was the great and constant endeavour of Goethe, to keep his intellect in such a state as to be ready to exert itself upon any description of literary or scientific subject, and this was a source of his peculiar greatness. He attained higher eminence in all the subjects which- he treated than he could have done in any one department by unrelieved application to it. Week after week, and month, after month, I went on in my enthusiastic labours. Men often are not aware of what severe and untiring labour they are capable, until they have made trial of their strength. I proceeded with out a moment's rest, and on Avery successive day found myself better fitted for study and composition. Far from feeling any exhaustion of intellect, or any impoverishment of ideas, I found my mind growing .more and more inventive, more ready in the application of its stores, and richer and more novel in thought than before. I took up in succession every subject which can engage attentlbil--- poetry, criticism, philology, history and mathematics, in short, every topic which ancient and model could suggest. OW	 A A /ILL .. The period which I had fixed on for returning to Merton was pow fast approaching. The class to which I belonged—I had entered the secondLwas graduated. I was constrained, however, to remain in the city for a few weeks after the termination of the course, and I then began my arrangements for visiting Merton. On the evening of the day when all my preparations were completed, I went out to a jeweller's and purchased two rings, one plain and the other richly set with diamonds. The latter I intended for a present to Emily, when I reached her. I returned again to my room ; every thing was packed and placed in readiness about me, and having no occupation to employ the night. I sat down by the fire to think over my affairs. During the whole of my absence I had not addressed a single word to Emily, nor had I heard any thing from her. I had wished to bury myself in absolute retirement, and in silence and obscurity work out my triumph. I felt assured that she never could change, and I Could foresee no possible circumstance which could interfere with my happiness. It was a proud hour. that I there spent in lonely meditation. The labour. of three long years was brought to a conclusion, a conclusion even more successful than hope had promised. I had written books which I had only to avow, in order tp obtain the highest reputation. anticipated the gratification which shotild have in telling Emily the secret of my glory. I amused myself in imagining how she had passed the long hours of our separa- tion. I pictured her to myself as enduring patiently, with high hopes, but somewhat of apprehension and doubt, the time which she must pass ere we should meet again. By day she could build her happiness "on woman's quiet hours ;" by night she could find a gentle solace in the tender memory of my departure. / asked myself—it was a fond but enticing thought—whether it were not possible that she haditusPcted or discovered by some secret sympathy, thetiouthor of the works which had excited so much no- tice. At least, thought I, she has seen and admired the I have published, and it remains for me, ie purpose the moonlit bower, to enjoy the closing to her the fkct, and placing upon her finger this jewelled expression of my love. I retired to bed with the assurance of a bright and unclouded future. CHAPTER IIL Uberern vallem, ealubrem venom, Cursu fluminis amcenam, Letam sylvis, et frondosam, Herae vultu speciosam. RICHARD BRATHWAIT. I ROSE early on the following morning and set out upon my journey. The day was fine, and the air delightfully fresh and inspiriting ; a gentle breeze from the west served to enliven, without agitating, the feelings, and produce that excited influence on the frame which thrills through the mind with a glad disturbance. Gray, always happy in epithets, never applied one more expressive or appropriate than when he called the morning " incense-breathing." We are pleased with the term when we read it in our chamber, but when we stand on some lofty headland, looking toward the newly-risen sun, and the uncertain zephyr grows fresher and fuller in swelling strength, we search the mind for some phrase that can denote the delight, and the word " incense" flashes on the understanding as a discovery of the instant, and a moment elapses before we discoven that.the word is another's and not our own. As light which contains all colours is colourless, and as the perfection and completeness of sound, according-to Pythagoras, is silence, so the primary; single and undefective perfume, is the inodorous breath of day. One who,—fike the genertil race of men,-=has gone from. youth to manhood, through common life, a comipon man, can form no notion of the state of feeling in which I existed at this time,—a state which was but one of tile a * • many phases pf the human character when it gro*d up alone, and aloof from precedent, fellowship, or example, acted upon by nothing-save the grand impulses of nat)Are. The infinite little distractions of a quiet employment, the hourly greetings In the,.street,,the momentary expectation of an incidet, the sowing of to-day for the reaping of tomorrow, pe.constant sense of an external relation, all form, as it were. a into-like music to the' heats of 'the dweller in the high-way of life, which charms the passions to sleep, and harmonizes the opposing infinities of the soul into the zero that lies between : and man enveloping within him capacities for good that might dwarf an angel, aad energies of evil that might startle a demon, goes through the world a harmless, worthlesbeing; as little conscious of what lies within him.as the hirsute rind of the oyster knows of the jewel that it. houses. To the thousands who have never made acquaintance with their own, souls, what I shall relate of myselfat this time may seem incredible becaute it is unusual; wanting sympathy with the feeling, they may lack intelligence of ,the condition. As little resemblance have the habits of the children of society to the impulses of the children of nature, as the spark on an electric ,point upon the earth has to the mighty spirit which the thunder-cloud has nursed, bosomed in its depths as it-sails the air; as little as the stunted hemlock of a 'grove to the heaven-stretching cedars of Mount Im.ibanus. Yet be there' many.,doubtless in whom the germ has sprouted, though it grew not to a flower; men who have in youth dreamed wildly • flo a moment, till the appointed destiny drew them back to business. Such may from the actual infer. the possible, ow/ will know frovi a glimpse, once granted, ever gar-. tiered, that my description exceeds not the truth.	. For three xears I had lived. in utter solitudC, my mind having no other coitopanion than my heirt. With all	 curious speculations, mysterious imaginings, and pro-	 found impressions I was intimately Jinni*: to	the	 things of nature and the thoughts of trIan,• that could	 awake affection, wonder and meditation I was exquisitely susceptible. Morbid in feeiing and impracticable in ex *lotion, I was as little adapted to join actively in the	 fe	•	 • busraesr of the world,' as a tattering hermit is fitted to rise from the lonely musings of half a,century, and marshal art arrak en the plain of combat. I was about tip. mingle with men pin, and too' rest on them the fbundation of my romantid schemes; and it never occurred to me that those who listed under the influence Of agencies the polar opposites of Mine, might in any respect be different from mei* I was abbut to transplant a dream from ait to earth, thinking thfft a sky-bud would flower in the soil. In the tiniversif of fancy I had created a world of my. own, and living daily in that world, knew not that it was not the common globe; I thought that the azure veil on high which not hid angels from my sight, was the same sky thit looted do"Iwn on the labours and the pleaslures of the whole earth ; that the same Nature which looked, laughed, spoke to Ape in vale and hill and shady grove, spoke, looked and laughed also to woman andlo man wherever dwelling;— tot reflecting that tb the enthusiast's eye life is profoundly masked in error; not considering that the vapours of hope must be chilled and condensed ere they passed into solid reality. My dreims were to the world's deeds as noontide dew Or fountain in a noonday grove, is to the strumpet highway common unto all, which sends to the sky no tribute but the arid dust the earth throws off. As I went on amid sights of landscapes varying but to lease, and under scenes of heaven changeless but to ..enchants I gzed in a revery of rapture upon .the lovely 'prospect, till it beam .Far lovelier, and my soul. chid n.	, stain The beauty still more beauteous! A wave of deep emotion swelled thresh my bosom, as I looked into the clear blue sky, and influences of sacred joy floated to me through the crystal air. Teat grand old man, Lord Bacon, was wont when he ...rode ''	Country, especially if a slight soft rain was fatting, to oiadoiter 'his head, shying tot " he loved that the Spirit of tie ,Universe should rest upon his templeq - a That such a spirit is, and makes itself to be perceived, is an impression which feeling suggests and philosophy sanctions. And if the stern and the worldly, if the commonplace and the trivial perceive this emanation,—and the squalid infant who knows no more of nature than the still cape of sky that roofs its native alley, has pondered its meaning with a heart of reverence,—if they whose hearts are encrusted by sensuality have, in despite of their hardness, been awed, it may be imagined how susceptible was I who had so nursed my soul to tenderness that, often, as if it had been a harp-string of living nerve, the faintest breath of passion could delight it almost to agony. In a tremor of. gladness, my frame quivering with emotion, I looked back on the years that were passed, and forward to the days that were coming. I had been successful,—even to the craving fulness of romance, successful,—in all my plans and undertakings. I was returning as a triumphant _hero, with We proudest trophies of victory in my hand ; my veins tingling with that sense of glorious success 'which makes the eye quiver and the lip tremble. Hope elevated and joy brightened my crest." When I looked forward, vision rose piled upon vision in unexhausted profusion, and dreams of happiness, each brighter than its predecessor, flitted unceasingly over the scenes of fancy. Of this world of suggestive bliss Emily should be queen ! I would enthrone her mistress over all that was mine, whether treasured in the heart or built in the fancy. TA her I would subject all my thoughts, my plans, my splendid wishes. Referring to this period of my life, from the totally different state in which I now find myself, I feel it difficult r to do more than tint at the high-wrought madness which then possessed me. It is rather by memory acting upon the result, than bye-elating consciousness that I am able to realize to myself that strange condition. • No more than a far abler artist can I paint what then I was." But from sketches, broken and imperfect, the reader may apprehend in some degree, how false and .unsound was the position into which solitude and a heated mind had brought me, and may anticipate the revulsion which reality would work in one of such jealous sensibility and longings as limitless as the universe. I reached the village of my destination about noon, and alighting at the edge of it, went on foot over the fields, intending to pass through the garden, and enter by the back way the house in which Emily resided. Connected with her father's house was a tolerably extensive park or lawn, tastefully disposed, and agreeably furnished with trees and flowers. It was the place in which I had parted from Emily three years before; and as I walked through it now, almost entranced in visionary enthusiasm, I verily expected to find her there waiting for me, as if by some secret sympathy she had known of my arrival. I looked that she should have started up in love's own ecstasy, and flown to my arms in the thoughtless innocence of nature. But she did not. I reached the house, and ascending the steps which led by a window to the parlour, I raised the sash and entered the room. The object of my search was before me; she at alone, fully dressed, upon a sofa, reading a newspaper. She raised her eye, and as she recognized me, smiled, and with a very composed air advanced towards me. " Mr. Stanley !" giving me her hand, " I am extremely happy to see you. Pray sit down. When did you arrive in town " "Lately,—immediately," said I. " You found the roads very dusty, I am afraid. We are very, much in want of rain." Very,—extremely so, indeed :" I replied, absolutely stunned by the calm immobility of the speaker. In art instant after, the sense of my ridiculous notions, of my idiotical folly of expectation flashed upon me. This sudden bolting of the actual upon the visionary startled me as the sudden awatoir a sleeper who unknowingly has wandered to a di	eeJpice. My thoughts whirled round to a consciousness of the reality, like a windlass furiously uncoiling when, with its heavy weight almost at the top, the handle is forced off: My dreams could never, be fulfilled ! My affections never satisfied ! Mingled with rage I felt a hopeless slaking of the heart. Great God • the being whom I had enshrined in the seteuth heaven of idolatry, whom I had ad red into an ambrosia-breathing goddess, was here before me a neat young lady thinking how a shower would allay the.dust. I knew not whether to laugh or to cry. . " The crops, I am &old," continued Emily, " are suffering very much. A gentleman said yesterday that the wheat was nearly destroyed by the drought : the grass appears to be exceedingly parched." With such observations was I entertained by the woman whose lightest tone I thought could have thrilled me with ecstasy. Though keenly vexed I sat in mute composure, while every moment " the cold reality" became more intensely real. Presently I rose, and bidding her good morning, staggered rather than walked out of the room, entertained by the pleasing conviction of having made a desperate fool of myself. The readei., in the calmness of ordinary feeling, may laugh at so absurd a state of things. I can laugh now; nay, more, I can artile, as the scene rises before me. But far different was it at the time. The grief and the fury wherewith the disappointment stung me, I cannot undertake to describe. I rushed from the house, blind with anguish, and finding a coach setting off for the city, threw myself into it, almost insensible with sad amazement. • CHAPTER IV. .Let us cast ourselves into the rushing of time, into the rolling of accident. There, pain and pleasure, success and disappointment may succeed each other as they will. WW,	FAUST. , I HARDLY know how I got through that journey,—at least, at this distance of time, I cannot distinctly recall what succession of emotions started up and chased one another through my mind, during that first agoby of my desolation. a Sensatiens %f deep shame and mortification, of inward rage and vexation, sand of prostrate hopeless grief, for some time followed each other in hurried confusion. But it was not long ere, I mastered 'the emotion. At those seasons in which the mind is in.a desponding mood, and the vigour of the heart slumbertin inaction, the intelligence of a great misfortune so conquers the spirit that it submits to the infliction without a struggle, and the only relief which can be hoped for, is that relief which is the offspring of Time. So did hot I yield. Calamity, when it visited me, found one as salient in his energies as he was keen in his sensibilities, and disposed to regard grief, when it assumed the character of a settled enemy to his happiness, with a militancy of inclination and a "resolution never to submit." My passions had been sounded deeply and variously in the solitude of my study, when, for ambition's sake, I girded myself to wrestle with the stern difficulties of science, and to grapple with the elusive mysteries of poetry. Those passions which had thus been roused and drilled, `a it were, for action, this blow tried to the utmost; the struggle was intense, but the result was victory. From the jarring chaos came manliness and strength. I arose .flkom the conflict another being. The event was a climacteric in my life. The visions* of boyhood vanished ; the pictures of youth faded : the energies of the man were roused. I cast the grief from me. I threw from my thoughts all remembrance of Emily and of my ancient hope. I resolved that former feelings should no more be tenants of my heart ; that sensibility should clasp other objects,—that ambition, warming in pursuit of other quarries, should feel no defeat, that the heart,,filled by other and far distant employments, should find no void. Night was setting in when I reached the city. The events of the morning and the occurrences of days just passed, seemed at that time removed by a century's distance. When they occurred to my mind it was in glimpses as over a long tract of years. Change of circumstance anticipates lapse of time; there is no interval like the interval of feeling. As I could not have endured to visit the house which I had formerly occupied,--the theatre of a drama past by, r-wittiout iillisgttef, I betook myself to a hOtel. Amid the excising bustle of mach a place, I recovered a cairn and . commonplace tone of feeling which it is among the mar s of our beim, that we can wander into, even in , the wIdt of the greatest excitement. In the evening; however, when I was left alone, the sense of my solitude-, and of my mobrnful disappointment came upqn me with a cheerless weight, and filled me with the deepest melancholy. I felt as if I had sustained some loss by death;' in fact, the being whom I had loved and worshipped was uo more. My Einily was gone for ever, and it mattered little to my heart ,or my hopes whether her place was filled by another, or was void. Not that the occurrence Ieft,me desperate, or prevented my indulging in prospects of future action ; but still I could not help recurring to it with bitter regret ; lamenting that my prospects were dashed to the ground, and that all my labours were labours in vain, and laying the fault rather on the unworthiness of the object I had trusted, than the madness of the fancy which had made me trust. To the occupations of the future I looked rather as a means of forgetting the past, than of affording any pleasures of its own. • I felt that sort of cheerful misery and contented despair which the poet has so touchingly and so delicately exhibited in a single soliloquy of Jaffier, and I was ready to exclaim with him, reversing the conditions, “ I will heat my wayward fate alone, But nc'er know comfort more." On the following morning I sat down to decide upon my future course of life. I felt that one act of my existence was concluded,—that I was going to begin another era ; and wished it to be as opposite to the former as possible. I looked upon my past years as a bright field of joy separated from the present by a dark chill cloud. To the little den In which I had spent three years of strange, unusual bliss, I would-not return; my intention was to profess for awhile the business of pleasure, and to taste the flowing waters of life, as I had .before drunk of them. at rest ; to occupy myself as, much as possible with society, and endeavour to divert the sense of that distress the reality of which I could not obviate. It was the middle of summer, and none of the few acquaintances whom I had, were in tows ; and althoogh as a residence in the warmest weather, the empty city.must be infinitely preferable to the confined quatSers.o(a country inn, yet my wish at this time was to seek those places where company most abounded, 'and' to amuse myself with the artificial interests of the drawing-room. I therefore sat out at once for the sea-shore, and after a day's _ride found myself the inhabitant of a house into which three hundred persons had crowded themselves to be comfortable and cool. I do not know any spot where a good-humoured philoiopher could find more to feed his mirth, than he may meet with at a fashionable watering-place. We are told that Democritus used to walk daily to the sea-side to enjoy a laugh at the oddities in human character and conduct that were there presented to his view. Doubtless antiquity was as rich in absurdity as are our own times; but if he found by the sea half as much to amuse him as we may now discover in the same place, he did well to visit it Still it would have been worth a wish to the merry-hearted sage that he could have lived to shake his sides in the dining-room of a modern resort. To witness the ridiculous displays of vanity and pretension that there occur, would have afforded him a perpetual feast of jollity ; and it might have roused a deeper feeling of scorn, and a sense of something like humiliation for his race, to behold the contrast here displayed between the majesty of nature and the littleness of man ; where, within sight of the boundless sea, and within hearing of his eternal roar,—on the spot where wisdom might retire to muse and poetry to feel the inspiration which it loves,—a herd of mortals collect to play the antics of a farce, and to show the motley meanness of "the noblest work of God." On the morning after my arrival, when I had completed the ceremony of dressing for dinner, I descended to the large public room, where all were assembled that none might have an unfair advantage in the attack which was shortly to take place. As I passed in, two or three shameless gourmands were standing near the door of the dining-room ready to rush to the assault upon the first opening of the doors. One young gentleman, was sitting in the wy	lassLILArds. hail, in that inclined position the discovery of which the English do us the honour of ascribing to onr nation. He was reclining in the most careless manner in the world, apparently courting the breeze, and intent only on a newspaper ; but a certain restless fidgeting, and the hurried glance which he cast toward the door when any noise within indicated to his imagination that the important moment had arrived, manifested that he had pretty successfully simplified his wants into one comprehensive craving. As I went by, one of the servants within, whether from accident or design, placed his hand on the knob of the door, when the expectant's chair dashed to the floor, and he was about to spring forward, but discovering his mistake, retreated again in some confusion. Leaving these hopeful youths in the pious performance of the command to watch and prey, I won the entrance of a huge place yclept the parlour, and proceeded , through it to see if there were any within whom I knew. The regions near the door were occupied by a host of coarse-looking people,—fat round-shouldered men, with long white waistcoats extending far below their buttoned blue' coats, and fatter women, with white pocket-handkerchiefs in their hands and flaunting caps with red ribarids streaming,—looking, on the whole, extremely like filleted oxen going up to be sacrificed at the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. I had heard that a friend of mine, a delightful person to meet with any where, was at this time at the shore ; and while my eye was waxdering in search of him it fell upon a German with whom I had some acquaintance. I went up to him, and demanded if he knew or had seen the gentleman I was looking for. Mr. Heineman was a naturalist ; and from long devotion to facts and their dry classification his mind had become a mere catalogue of particulars; he would have formed at this time as singular a curiosity in a cabinet of moral rarities as any specimen in his physical collection. " Sir," said I, " do you know Mr. Seward'!" " Seward !" pronounced the philosopher, casting his eyes to the ceiling and assuming a most abstracted air,— " of Sewards I have known three. Philip 'Seward, restaurateur, at Calcutta,—John Seward, barber, at Buenos Ayrqs, and Jehosapbat Seward, cook in the Danish ship " The person I allude to," said I, " is probably no connexion of either the, restaurateur at Calcutta, the barber of Buenos Ayres, or the cook on board of the Danish ship Tiger. He is a man of good family, and his mother was the celebrated beauty, Miss Brown." "Of Browns," said the German eagerly, protruding his chin, staring intently on vacancy, and counting at the same time upon his fingers ; " of Browns I have known just forty-six—no, forty-seven—Ellphalet Brown, of—" The important communication was here interrupted by the approach of a well-looking young man, and the names of the forty-seven Mr. Browns whom Heineman had chronicled in his memory were lost to me for ever. My German presented me 'to the new-comer. He was one of those harmless simpletons who look upon talk as a certain 'formal exercise, who will say any thing "in the way of conversation," and are satisfied with themselves if they can but make a remark. The youth extended his long neck, and bowing between his ear and his shoulders, said, in a grave tone belt with an extremely insinuating air, " There was a Stanley died recently of the cholera." " Same man, of course," said , and turning upon my heel, left him to practise compliments upon the German. " That sea-ing they might not see!' " said a voice at my shoulder. " Are your eyes so shore-n of their beams' that you cannot discover an old friend !" I turned and recognized Seward ; though, had I only " seen with my ears" I might have known the speaker by the vileness of his puns. He was one who although his mercurial temper and fondness for social notoriety led him constantly to sacrifice dignity to diversion, yet rendered himself universally acceptable by the unflagging liveliness and spirit of his conversation. He was often extravagant and sometimes fatiguing, but never dull. To keep himself excited and others interested was the whole business of his life : and to this end, the purest wit and the most despicable quibbles, a keen vigour of reason and inexhaustible powers of buffoonery united in an odd but delightful confusion. He could be serious on occasion, and with great effect : when the taste of his companion nade it desirable, he was always ready to take Part in argument, and he never took part in vain. But still if he cap was not on his head it Was at least in his hand, and it the slightest signal the grave debater was a dancing rarlequin. I have seen him at one moment discussing Edwards on the Will" with a learned professor, and at he next crowing like a cock for the amusement of a !hild. In this last accomplishment his powers were mire; he would have dwarfed Braham, and even the ord.lieutenant for Ireland could not have stood near him. hardly know whether it was a greater treat to hear him .txpound the " Aids to Reflection," or repeat " Christaher with a long-drawn-out accompaniment of the " to-whit, ;u-whoos." For a mind like his wherein choice witti?Isms, learned quotations and stories of humorous aneclotes, lay piled together as ander a mosaic dispensation, there could be no antitypes in nature but the gizzard of in ostrich in which pen-knives, bits of glass, old nails, and fragments of leather repose, an indigesi a ;e j or the index of a magazine, where "Hell" follows " Heaven," Omnipotence" is backed with "Oysters," and " Freedom" and " Fudge," " Washer-woman" and " Washington," Boiled-eggs" and " Bonaparte," " Divinity" and " Doornails" stand in apt conjunction. In short, there were nearly as many different elements in his character as there are distinct orders of architecture in an American bank. He was quite young, and although he prided himself on his powers of intrigue, was in reality profoundly ignorant of the world, and more often imposed upon than any one I ever knew. His visage was as odd as his chitracter ; pale, lanthorn-ja wed, worthy a man of eighty : his brow knotted and wrinkled, and a couple of deep lines running horizontally across the top of his nose,—an infallible sign, by the way, of humour. The heart of Seward was as true as his head was various, and a firmer friend, when his esteem had been gained, existed not. • " You seem to be somewhat crowded here, mon ami," said I. " This crowd," said Seward, "like Hamlet's grief and the new-flshioned coats, knows not seems.' It is as real as any action known to the law of England." " Infixed, rather, I should think," said L " But pray tell me who some of these people are : and, to begin with the least, who is that little creature, that homuncle, that differential of a man, who is illustrating himself to those ladies with such consummate self-satisfaction " " True," said Seward, " Sapiens incipit a fine, we will proceed from the lowest of creation, upward. That man is the well-known Mr. Arish ; who in talking of celebrated authors, says, we literary men.' He is a critic, which means an author run to seed ; and has been, in his tine, a great bug-bear to young writers, but to my thinking tile bug so predominates over the bear, that I am surprised that he is not rather an object of contempt than of fear. He was bred up to no profession, and being obliged by the narrowness of his income to seek labour of some kind, be resorted to that last ,refuge of unprovided genius; the `unapprenticed trade of authorship. His productions however, did not happen to strike the public mind : in short he failed. But the versatility of his genius was not without a resource. Every man,' says Shaftesbury, thinks he can drive a whiskey, and manage a small farm.' Every educated man thinks he can teach a school, and edit a newspaper. Arish resorted to the latter ; a choice which I so highly commend, that I shall some day or other adopt it myself. He had by nature, undoubtedly, very peculiar talents for the post, especially, of a political editor. No man could turn a paragraph better, or succeed more infallibly in rendering a sheet ephemeral. It was beautiful to see a man so much elevated above principle, and indulging such sublime contempt for decency. He is understood to have commenced his course of preparation for politics by a diligent study of Turner's History, and Mrs. Trimmer's Abridgements. He determined to execute the advice of the philosopher in Rasselas, and live according to nature. He fixed his eyes upon the moon, and resolved to emulate her changes. He saw the osier, and excelled it in pliancy: He imitated the seasons, too, with most happy resemblances ; and often when his friends expected from the mild and spring-like approbation of his manner, that the warmth of summer patronage was to ensue, he would come out upon them with the freezing gusts of a Match wind. With such exquisite ilt• sang-froid did he pass to and fro from one party to another, that it might seen' as if he had merely done it to benefit his health by a change of air. He exhibited in his oft repeated and most graceful forward and back, cross over and turn round,' a dance of tergiversation, which Almaeks might have copied with applause. So thought the world, but in truth the man had no party but himself, and no principle but to advance himself:, and he never deserted the one nor forgot the other." " It might be an interesting problem for the Board of Longitude," said I, " to discover at what point of the compass he might be found at any given period in advance." Our conversation was here interrupted by the approach of a fat and very vulgar woman, with a very patronizing air to my companion : young men of good blood are always particularly protected by rich parvenues. " La! Mr. Seward !" cried the vulgarian, " what terrible places these is for gentility ! (placing the accent on the first syl- lable of the word.) One don't find nothing here as one is 'customed to, at home : nothing but steel/auks, which, you know, is quite exploded now. We brung down a dozen silver fawks with us ; and as you have always been 'customed to 'em, I know, we'll lend one of 'em to you : 'cause I know you can't eat your dinner without 'ern." Seward who was thoroughly patrician in his feelings, shrank from the coarse appeal, as if it had been a northeaster, and replied with great coldness, " I thank you, madam ; I can eat very well with steel." " Oh !" renewed the other. " I am sure you can't ; no one can. I will tell our servant to put a silver fawk by your plate." " You are excessively condescending, madam !" replied Seward, who was beginning to be vexed as he -saw the attention of the bystanders directed towards him, and who was as little fond of being victimized as he was fond of. victimizing ; " must beg, madam, that you will not give yourself any trouble of the kind : on this occasion, I prefer "steel." The patroness was effectually discomfited by the tone of dignity with which this was uttered, and withdrew without returning to the charge. I bad observed for some time a sickly, peevisMooking woman at no great Aistance from us, apparently engaged in pressing upon her husband sortie proposal to which he did not seem much inclined to consent, and of the suggestion of which he seemed to be somewhat ashamed. From the earnestness of the speaker's manner, her remarks seemed to have reference to some affair of not less than vital importance ; and during a pause which presently ensued in'our conversation, some part of the dialogue reached Our ears. " It is really too bad," said the woman, whose voice seemed to have become monotoned to querulousness, " too bad that they should take their places above us at the dinner-table. wish, my,dear, that you would speak to the keeper of the house. They have no right there. You must prevent it." ' " Oh ! my dear !" said the husband, who appeared to be a man of blunt good sense, " it is not a matter of the smallest consequence. One seat is just as good as another." " But," reiterated the other, " we must have our rights. The places belong to us. I will not see such people going above us. It is too. bad ;" and they went on wrangling. " Pray,'-' said I to Seward, who like snyielf had been listening to this conjugal colloquy, " can you tell me what duchess this is, who has thus been defrauded of her rights, and who are the plebeians who are so shameless in their encroachments upon rank !" " I happened," he replied, " to be present at the break. fast-table this morning, when a personal encounter took place between the parties, or rather when the other party took possession of the disputed seat, and the present complainant made an unsuccessful attempt to regain it. The usurper is the wife of a rich broker whose connexions are mean ; this woman is the wife of a poor broker, but happens to have a thirty-third cousin who married a gentleman. Upon the strength of the connexion, she assumes a coat-armour, and demands precedence accordingly. The loss of the seat which should belong to her, as having arrived here before the other, is the momentous argument of this contest." The dinner-bell presently rang, and we all went for- watd. The rich expostulator for place, preceded us in entering the room, and I could hear her again whispering to oher consort, " Do speak to the landlord ; it is tpo bad." Seward's place, by the by, as he afterwards told me, was equally interfered with by the tormentor of this poor sufferer, but he quietly seated himself without any outcry. His interest with the government procured me a seat near. Opposite was a Dutch baron, as he called himself; who understood English badly, and spoke it worse. He was perpetually falling into blunders, into which Seward acting upon Addison's humane rule, was perpetually plunging him deeper. .. CHAPTER V. As budding branches round a tree,— Thoughts cling, with feelings fraught, • Around the silence of the sea, Itself a feeling thought.	MZADIE. THE sun had just set, and the, evening breeze was freshening from the waters, when I went out to pay my respects to the ocean. Upon the whole, perhaps, I would as lief have gone alone, but encountering accidentally on my way a person whom I had formerly known well and esteemed very highly, I proposed to him to join my rain. ble. He assented and we went forward together. William Herand, was one of my earliest acquaintances at school, and without any very tender feelings upon either side, there existed a tolerably warm friendship between us during the whole period of our connexion as fellow-students. From some poetical compositions of his which I had seen, the production of his youngest years, I had formed a high opinion of his genius ; and I was accustomed to think of him, when in subsequent days my memory recurred to our former acquaintance, as one, who if occasion were propitious, would probably be distinguished in after life. He was one of those persons that we occasionally meet with, who seem formed for pre-emiience, and to have that pre-eminence yielded by all ; oz whose frank and cordial character excited so warm 'a personal regard and interest, that in acirnitting or asserting is claims to superiority, each seemed to be gratifying his pwn private pride. He was undoubtedly the most ad- mired of all who were at the school while I remained there; and his perfectly good temper and constant readiness to engage in amusement rendered him also the most popular. To tasks requiring either original genius, or acquired learning, he seemed equally fitted; he appeared to reach by a certain instinct of mind, that familiarity with difficult and unusual subjects, which others by the most plodding diligence, less successfully attained. With decided and unquestionable poetical powers, he united none of that moodiness of feeling and that lawlessness of passion, which the history of Lord Byron, and the theories of Mr. Moore, have taught the world to consider indispensable attributes of the poetical character. If the practice of one member of a profession could have justified a doubt of the necessity of those qualities which are usually demanded from the rest, I might have believed from the evidence which he afforded me, that one might, still be a bard without ceasing to be a man of honour, of principle, and of decency, and that, after all. there was no such inevitable divorcement between the writing of verses and the performance of the reasonable duties of life. As we walked on to the shore, we passed a large party of men and women, who were loudly pronouncing the sea and the sky to be " very fine," while a female of the company was repeating with an air of Pythonessan inspiration, what, she called " those sweet lines of Buyron," "Oh that the desert were my dwelling.place " that it were, indeed r cried Herand ; "'you cannot .wish it more devoutly than I do. Gracious Heaven ! If these vulgar and illiterate admirers of Lord Byrorr could imagine the ineffable disgust with which that haughty poet would regard them, 'were he again alive, I think that their enthusiasm would be somewhat cooled: Pish ! let us escape from these romantic fools, who realize the Per- sian description of a sacred animal of that country, whose ears are so long that when he lies upon his side, one of them serves for a mattress, and the other for a coverlet." " He must indee be greedy of admiration," said I, " who can relish the morsel from so foul a plate. One is almost reconciled to insignificance when it is among the penalties of distinction to excite such applause. A man may be content to allow his skiff to lie dry upon the beach, when he sees what wretched parasite) shell-fish cling about the keel of those vessels which have ventured on the ocean, in numbers sometimes great enough to break up the voyage." We presently reached a retired part of the beach, where the broad expanse of the waters extended before the eye in all their silent majesty. The sentinel surges gleamed far along the shore like a white-plumed triple line of soldiers, to guard the rest of the deep. "It is a glad and glorious pastime to the spirit," said my companion, to look upon this type and token of Almighty power—to wrestle with the living thoughts which dwell like things amid the stir and strife of these eternal waters—to encounter the strong breathlessness or awe which is dashed upon the soul as we inhale at a glance the vastness of the scene. Upon the face of the deep, the spirit of eternity still is brooding: as we pause before this wide unbarriered space, and our naked mind stands bold against the unveiled, eternal universe, a silent thopght of homage swells through the endless space ; acid that thought is nod. The ocean is the material image of the Almighty : what attribute of Deity is not here substantial Power, of an infinite fulness ;—beauty, of that particular pervadingness of essence, that rain and tempest, and the beaks of winds evolve and not efface it ;—life, abstract and indestructible, that never wearies and that never wastes—whose days know not repose, and upon whose bosom the cloud of nightly slumber never weighs. If the dancing water brook should cease 'to chant his praises who inspired its gladness,—or if the infuriate storm-blast as it gnashes through the forest, should burst from its bands, and disown its Maker ;—if men should ever gaze upon the western sun, and fbrget whose countenance its brightness mirrors, or rest upon the mountain turf, nor own from whose omnipotence the strength of the hills has sprung ;—if the knowledge of the Infinite One shall ever pass away from the earth, the roar of the ocean will thunder it back. It was the sublime intention of Nidholas Ferrar that a perpetual chant or solemn service of music should be established at Little Gidding, to be sustained by generation after generation, and continued to the. end of time without the interruption of a moment. He wished that, whatever might be the condition of men or the character of the times, the voice of praise might ever be ascending; that it should rise amid the roar of contest, like a smiling lotus through a tangled ruin, and be the blended harmony of all the thoughts of peace ; that the ancestor and hip descendant might unite in the same song of thanksgiving, and century be bound to century by an all-embracing stream of worship. What the saint designed, the sea performs. There are times perhaps in which from human lips throughout the broad extent of the earth, no sound of prayer or praise is heard ; but the listening seraph who looks out from the windows of heaven, hears the organ of the waters peal everlastingly. It is not without an influence which may be termed holy,—for its beginning is fear and its effect is cleansing,—that we muse within this great cathedral of the sky-roofed deep. When first seen by man, it gives him a thought and a disturbance, which though nothing can have ever before started such emotions within him, seem strangely familiar to his feelings. And when we claim instinctive brotherhood with that which stretches back, like a broad sheet of light, to the first moment that the gush of sun-beams flowed down upon the waves, and forwards till the depth of the heavens shall be opened, we realize one of those moments of existence in which man feels his immortality and trembles at it. There are thoughts of mystery and dreams of magic floating around this scene ; and there are those who have feasted on them till they have become maddened, and their life has turned to parching thirst for the fhlness of these unearthly sentiments. But such thoughts are the food of heaven; and while I would labour for their recognition as the proof of heaven, I would postpone their en- joyment to another lift, and abide in hope till the veil of the flesh which dims them, is withdrawn." " There are," said I, " many faculties of the heart whose true sphere of exerciae is not in this world, and which bear in the fact of their being, unequivocal testimony that the intellectual frame wherein they are lodged, is destined for employment in another field of histence. And you have indicated truly the use which should be made of them; we should question them of their secret, elicit from them the truth which they have to impart, and then dismiss them to be more-fully developed in the due revolution of time. And I cannot help thinking that much of the scheme of practical Christianity has the same prospective reference. We do wrong in supposing that to the earth, only, or even chiefly, is confined the application of the requisitions of the Scriptures ; that this globe is the only acting theatre of man, and that the future is but a scene of cairn and impassive enjoyment. Our preachers err in limiting to this small arena a struggle and an endeavour which will last through eternity,—in confining within mundane limits, a mystery which fills immensity. Instead of a benignant blessing to man it were a bitter mockery of his helplessness, to expect him to attain the full measure of that perfection, than which no more belongs to consummate purity : to demand of him to familiarize to his bosom and to expound by his conduct a system before whose unfathomable obscurity angel and archangel bow in humility ; to comprehend which, cherubic wisdom must pray for added intelligence; to fulfil which, seraphic ardour is not too sufficient. My opinion is, that those commands which are enjoined upon us here, are intended in their completeness to apply to our conduct in future worlds, when by cumulative energy through successive stages we shall arrive at a moral vigour in some measure adequate to the task. And in the very mode of the exposition of these matters in the Scriptures, I read a confirmation of this opinion ; for the doctrine of faith is therein fully and satisfactorily laid open, but the precepts of practice are imperfectly and in many cases impracticably developed ; giving glimpses, as it were, of that complete scheme, whose revelation is reserved for other spheres. For spiritual existence in the great archipelago of worlds that fills the ocean of infinity is not independent, but successive,—death being but a sleep and a for- getting,'—birth, an awaking with extended power. The great sacrifice which was exhibited, in our own globe two thousand years ago, believe me, was not confined to it. It was a divine immolation for total sin on the great altar of the universe, and its manifestation was simultaneous throlaghout the whole array of planets; to each there was a darkening of the sun; in each a rending of the veil in an old temple of superstition; Those who have been cast on these shores prior to the revelation of atonement, will learn the healing truth in some future abode of their souls. It would require a mighty argument to convince me, that I have not lived before this ; it would, require an almighty one to persuade me, that I shall not live hereafter. Meanwhile, whatever may be our future lot, there are incumbent upon us, here, momentous duties as members of society. Let us, therefore, secure of the developements of future time, lay aside the pursuit of these unprofitable speculations which the contemplation of nature forces on our mind, and girding ourselves to the task before us, actively meet the exigencies of life, and calmly • wait the great teacher, Death.' " " I have always consented," said Herand, " to the maxim of the great moral poet, that the proper study of mankind, is man : and I hold that communion with nature is only valuable to freshen and relieve the spirit, and to strengthen the heart to pursue the study. Deeply, as from long acquaintance, I am attached to the solitary haunts where nature reveals herself to her votaries in all her majestic loveliness, and, familiar as I am with the strong charms of those fair spirits who preside over lake and stream and mountain, I must still, in the sobriety of reasoning judgment, confess that those poets, who, like Shelley and Hemans, linger for ever beneath the cope of air, and weave not one valuable moral reflection, not one maxim of prudence, among their verses, are not my most cherished favourites. The light which they dispense may be light from Heaven,' but it is not for Earth : it is all thrown upon the by-paths of romance and the groves of sentiment, not a ray illuminating the high road of human conduct,—that path of action which, while we are men, vol. r.	 must be the chief field of our footsteps. They render that the essence, which, in reason, is but the accident of life; they make that the substance of our business, which should, in truth, be but the gilding of our leisure. It is indeed of advantage to retire occasionally from pursuing the reality of virtue to daily with its romance; but these writers make the argument of the volume of what affbrds but matter for a parenthesis. When the recess of evening brings repose from labour, the reveries of the fireside are in place; but it is worse than idle to linger dreaming in the twilight of the valleys, when midday duties await us on the plain."	- " You are of course, then," said I, " an admirer of Pope " " So much so, that, with the exception of a few, of his avowed followers, who have caught something of his spirit, I question whether there has been any true poetry since his days. Ah ! my friend,"when I see the age about to crown with the title of Immortal, a poet whose greatest productions are Hymns to a Butterfly, and whose most elevated occupation is the sentimental ogling of a tulip,' I fear that we are in the sad condition of the degenerate Israelites, having abandoned the God of our fathers. and gone a-hunting after strange idols. The old Egyptian plague is renewed among us, and grasshoppers and locusts have gotten into the king's chamber. The community of letters has indeed become, a republic ; all are now equal in insignificance. And the extinction of monarchy in song, like that of the political monarchy of France, is followed by a rabble of daily aspirants, whose fame is as brief as their popularity was vehement." " I am afraid," said I, " that your simile extends its application to your disadvantage. If the judges will not admit Byron into the line of legitimate kings,' the people will crown him by the title of • emperor." " I would rather," replied Herand, " subscribe tp, Byron's opinion of Pope, than the people's opinion of Byron. Of the poets now in vogue you must unman yourself to read one-half, and unchristianise yourself to admire the other. Aristides, being guilty of no other crime than the crime of being just, was banished upon that charge; and Pope, in the dearth of fault, is condemned because he is moral' The ostracists of Pope talk much of the necessity of invention' to constitute a true poet, and descant much on the importance of imaginative' topics; but it is yet to be proved that a subject rises in poetical value in proportion as it sinks in every other value. How can it affect the beauty of the structure that its foundations rest upon a rock! Are the garlands.of Fancy the less lovely, or is their odour the less fragrant, because they are en-' twined around the sceptre of Truth I Is the splendid Pharos that sublimely silent gazes o'er the deep, the less picturesque, because its main purpose is utility? Is the architecture of the Doric portico at Athens the less exquisite in its impression, because it was built for a marketplace! Those critics must be arrant poetical Calvinists, who deem so vilely of their own species as -to deny it to be a worthy topic of the poet's pen. What _subject can be more interesting than the conduct of man ? more various than the nature of man! more sublime than the duties of man'? I admit then to Byron the title of Poet of the Ocean,—to Hemans, of Poet of the Lily ; admit not—I demand for Pope the title of the Poet of MAN." " It was the stern sincerity of an honest freedom," said I; " the consciousness that he battled singly for the right —that with a magic transformation made the pen of Pope, as Paulus Jovius said a his own, sometidles a pen of gold and sometimes a pen of iron, and caused his couplets to flow around the land with a might of sarcasm unwithstood. Conservative in all his feelings, he yet hated cant with a fierce defiance; anxious to impress his.age, be yet conciliated no sect and truckled to no party. Buying no voices and leaguing with no confederates, he stretched forth his hand in the name of Truth, and in _that name he wrought his miracles ; alone he did it.' Such a man has no need to concern himself abqpt popularity; he creates it, as the sun creates the day." " While. Pope, in action, wandered into no enormous vices," said Herand, " he proposed in theory no extravagant standard of virtue; his precepts. were guarded, as Mackintosh finely says of Paley, by a constant reference to convenience and practice.' Hdw opposite to this is the modern school of teachers ! Look at Shelley complaining of wrong and tyranny, and eulogising purity and heavenly OZ	STANLEY. love, and then marrying two wives and leaving one of them to die of a broken heart. Look at Coleridge,—who together with Wordsworth is essentially of the same tribe,—writing songs that bid the heavens be mute,' and leaving his wife to the charity of Mr. Southey, who is about the only literary man of our time who is not ashamed to do his duty, and is upon the whole the most perfect character of his age. This poetical.fanfaronnade about virtue and affection, is disgusting in the mouths of these worthless vagabonds : 'Remember How easier far devout enthusiasm is Than a good action ; and how willingly Our indolence takes up with pious rapture, Though at the time unconscious of its end, Only to save the toil of useful deeds.' " " Pope," said I, " has certainly done as much to exalt the dignity of humanity by his life, as to improve the behaviour of men by his writings,—an article of commendation which can be extended to but few of his brethren. That tissue of putative meanness which was woven by the unnumbered foes which his genius had created, and which Johnson was not unwilling to extend, Roscoe has blown away like the filmy gossamer of the morning; and presented us instead, with a story as touching to our feelings and as honourable to our common nature as any other with which I am acquainted." " Sir," cried my companion, warming with enthusiasm as his mind dwelt upon the character of his favourite poet, "the hand of Biography does not present us with a finer, or more generous instance of a man giving himself up solely and without reserve, to high literary ambition ;with the solemnity„of an Hamilcar dedication, consecrating himself at the altar of Fame ; bringing to it the tender blossoms of his early boyhood,—to it, the ripened fruitage of his elder years. Withdrawing himself from the world, and nursing in solitude the fire of his heart, that youthful ardour, which in most cases is suffered to play objectless like the ground-fire of the tropics, was by him concentered on a single object. With no vices, with few foibles ; five from domestic cares, and safe from all political dis- turbance; wasting not a moment on the transitory,—he dwelt apart in his beautiful villa, looking out upon man as from the window of a castle, and sketching his character and his destiny with the calmness and fidelity of a superior nature; in youth creating richly, in manhood, refining slowly ; living out his sad and shattered age with no other purpose before'him than To better his life and better his lay, TO virtue's improvement and vice's decay.' Justly might he have exclaimed, quantum alii tribuunt tempestivis conviviis, quantum aleze, quantum pile ; tan-turn mild egomet ad &sec studia recolenda sumpi." " But might not the individual to whom those words were self-applied, contest the claim or Pope. to superior devotion to lofty fame r I think not. The part Which Cicero took in public life; his military longings ; his labours as an advocate and prosecutor; his occupations as queestor and consul, to all of which he looked for merely temporary distinction, would remove him from the comparison. Besides, you see clearly that to present duties, Cicero gave the preference in his own mind, and the time which he dedicated to labour for immortality was fragmentary, not continuous; snatched, not assigned. It is true that in the midst of popular applause and judicial approbation ; amid the tumults of official triumph and the distractions of private luxury—the still small voice of eternal aspiration reached and stung his inmost soul : but it was occasional, like the dim vistas which ever and anon open and close upon the eye of one who wanders through a forest. But Pope stood with his face full-turned upon the future, his eye resting nowhere short of the remotest posterity ; knowing well that the incense of Fame is the smoke of sacrifice, and that the diadem of genius is the martyr's crown. His was the sole glorious task to conqugr immortality; unambitious to light an earthly lamp which might attract the sidelong glance of the passing traveller,'or kindle a transitory fire which might draw together the idle and the vain, but emulous to plant a star in the eternal heavens, which though so distant that the first rays which reached the world might shine upon his grave, vet which. on,	MO" ^•••^• • .••• ME. Mk • when seen, should be seen for ever, and living on in I' still-abiding lustre, become a fadeless portion of the very frame of nature."	. " The change," said I, " which has come over the whole character of English poetry within half a century and has extended so deeply as to have transformed the principles Of criticism, has not yet met with satisfactory analysis. Poetry,' says Johnson, has rarely been worse employed than in dignifying the amorous ravings of a lovesick girl :' what a revolution in taste and opinion does the date of that remark exhibit !" " And . stranger than all," said Herand, " the verses upon which that bitter sentence was pronounced, have been repeatedly quoted as the sole evidence that Pope was a true poet. If the definition of poetry by the king of poets be adopted, Byron and Wordsworth and He-mans would fare badly. A poem,' says Milton, speaking by the mouth of his nephew, Phillips, Is an illustration or embodiment of some important moral truth, not drawn from individuality, but created by the imagination, by combining, with taste and judgment, ingredients selected from the stores of Fancy.' Had a description been framed with the express object of commending Pope and excluding Byron, it could not have been more scrupulously pointed. You cannot discover in the noble poet, a single notion or feeling which is general in its nature, or true upon universal application. The ability to rise above idiosyncrasy—to project general consciousness into imagined circumstance—so to expand the particular, and peculiarise the common, that any given sentiment shall be universal in reach and individual in impression—to widen views into principles, and point axioms into person. alities, so that all shall embrace and each identify—this, the keystone of poetic power, was utterly wanting in him. If Byron seems to have penetrated more deeply into the human heart than Pope, it is because the one digged so narrowly that the smallness of the extent assisted the depth, and the other opened so expansively that the wideness of the labour seemed to level the profundity. The brilliance of Byron's flashes proceeds from the ray being broken : Pope's light is the white light of unrefracted truth. To present a thought which shall be purely, pre- cisely, and perfectly just, requires so many modifications, fiattenings and smoothings down, of the first bold impression, that most artists have been deterred from the undertaking; and in the bands of the few who have attempted it, the work has commonly slid into the vague and the commonplace. Pope with unequalled felicity has united truth and power. Search the rolls of poetry from Orpheus to the newest-born, and of philosophy from the first who ever guessed to the latest who has ever reasoned ; explore the enigmatic revelations of the dark,thoughted Brooke, and the lucid demonstrations of the mastiff-minded-Hobbes, and find if you can, a passage so profoundly affecting and so exquisitely unerroneous ; so full of dignified pathos, and so instinct with majestic wisdom—as his description of the state of man : Born but to die, and reasoning but to err : Great lord of all things, yet a prey to all ; Sole judge of truth, in endless error hurl'd ; The glory, jest, and riddle of the world !' Think of these words amid the din of worldly business ; think of them in the ardour of studious toil ; think of them in the silence of your midnight chamber—and they shall seem to you the utterings of a prophet's voice." " Boll n g broke," said I, " somewhere remarks, that we might give to certain learned plodders, as chronologists and annalists, the praise which their eminence challenges, if we could persuade ourselves that they could have succeeded as well in any thing else; and the thought, though false, is natural and common. if Pope's claim to reward for the philosophic be contested, as it often is, on the ground that he wanted powers for the pathetic, the confutation of the doubt is complete in a single stanza. There is not in the wide compass of our literature a more moving passage than that in which this poet, so morbidly unegotistic, turns from the attack on the miserable detractors of his time to make one allusion to his cherished mother. The man who could write thus avoided the pathetic for a reason." " A far deeper pathos than the pathos of sentiment," said Herand, " is the pathos of wisdom. Lord Byron's anneals to the heart are about as elevated in their charac- /	•ff	. OW.. MORIN • ter and managed with about as much artistic skill as those which form the tale of the last beggar who was wrecked on the coast of Barbary. There is more of 'the very heart and soul of genuine pathos in one of Sir Thomas Browne's magnificent sneers, or in Goldsmith's anticipation of the fate of England, than in a thousand clyspectic Laras and costive Giaours. But whatever may be the defects of Byron's poetry, considered merely as poetry, his real faults are of another description : it is not the want of genius that I discern, but the want of generosity that , I lament. Who is there that, fascinated as he might be by the novelty of the thoughts; the beauty of the images; and the splendour of the diction, is not utterly disgusted by the peevish and unmanly complaint ; the paltry protrusion of self; the miserable vanity and personality ; and the total want of dignity, elevation, and independence', A misanthrope must be a man of a narrow soul : it must be a small mind, which when irritated by ill-treatment, finds a satisfaction in the impotent revenge of hate. No admiration to which the genius of ron might prompt me, could ever check the repulsive scorn which is stirred within me, by the sight of one thus having his eyes for ever on himself,' and corning before the world only to tell it how keen are his sensibilities and how -painful his indigestirs; that he has not loved the world, and that Wordsworth is his aversion : never will so far debase my own inward dignity as to listen to these wretched egotisms of another, much less will I dwell upon and applaud the miserable petulant out-breakings of a disappointed and jealous lordling. - respect myself too highly to treasure up what despicable inuendoes against others, or ridiculous mystifications about himself, any other may descend to, to gratify diseased ambition, or Booth his fretted vanity. No! let me dwell among manly poets; among those exalted older spirits from whose hymnings one rises rebuked, chastened and purified, and learns to venerate himself as MAN:' messengers who forgot not their mission, but made their heaven-descended genius parent of heaven-ascending graces; whom you read with a free soul, and an expansion of mind like that -bred by the wide ocean-scene we now survey, and whom we lay down in a better frame of feeling than we took up ; in better obedience of God's great laws ; in better love of our fellows ; and far better appreciation of our own state and value. The transition from the morbid and self-dissecting poets of our times ; the stove-room and hot-house species—to the clear and trumpet-voiced minstrels of an age gone by; Spenser, Dryden and Thomson —is like the passage from yonder heated and dizzy billiard-room to this clear, freshening, bracing air. To them and to it we turn as to exhaustless sources of high impression : from it, and from them we return as from baths of the soul, nerved with gladness and springing with enthusiasm. For to nature and to those kings of song only, it belongs to ever fascinate with never changing: we look to the moon with not the less joy, because we know that we shall see but what we have seen from infancy, and read Milton with interest undiminished by life-long familiarity. Those great intelligences of young time, are commensurate with nature and similar to her; their uniformity is like the uniformity of the heavens, the necessary oneness of complete perfection ; fdr when part has reached the summit, how can the rest differ but by descending? What variation can there be, but the variation of inferiority ? The sun varies not, nor does Homer : his monotony is the level line which is pencilled on the sky, by the highest ridge of the high-looming hills. As the soul cast alone into the gulfs of space, delights to fix upon some starry object unshifting amid a universe of shifting shadows, that it may feel firm on some part, and know surely of its whereabout ; so does the mind love to seize on some great watch-towers upon the shores of thought, and brace itself against a mental rock in the absorbing ocean. Surely, the intellect would craze with illimitation, if there were not in the wide view some eter- nal bounds of power, like Dante and Shakspeare." Thus talked we by the banks of the sea, through the calmness of twilight, till the moon shone clearly and the power of its light proved the presence of darkness. " Well," 'said Herand, turning to me after a pause, "if you wish to catch inspiration or a cold any longer from this scene,, I see no reason why you may not ; but I, you know, am a poet, and it will never do for me to study nature too long." " But is not that your very business and profession," " Fudge ! Take my word for it, that those who have best described nature have known least about her, and the noblest sonnets to the moon have been penned in the presence of a sea-coal fire, with shutters closed and curtains drawn. When we gaze corporeally upon the earth or sky. feeling chokes intellect, and sense stifles imagination ; and thus the right hand and the left of the poet are paralyzed. Nature presents a thought too big- to pass through the channel of expressio* and the reason must grasp and wring it. e'er the drops of Castalia will trickle from the cloud ; yet the reason is dashed by the tyranny of vision. It is this overpowering incumbency of one ast idea which renders the inhabitants of mountainous countries, idiots. We become great. not by putting im- pressions into the mind, but by drawing them out ; for they are all in there. For the infant soul was nursed in the bosom of God ; and the point where all the converg- ing and diverging rays of thought and feeling meet, is God ; she therefore containeth in herself all consciousness of truth and all sentiment of nature in like manner as the centre containeth the circumference. But timid are these inward emotions, and slighter than the crisped amethystine air-curls of the spirit that sleeps on the rose-leaf in the shade of the rose-down ; and therefore when the armed ideas of externality troop rudely near, they lurk within-and pretend themselves dead ; but when the moon- crowned midnight of mental quietude circles the soul with its still white drapery. then step they forth, lightly, slowly, falteringly, like the fear•vestured lady from a sentinelled camp to meet her hostile lover ; and ever by the day, sleeping in their caverns. lulled by the music of the heart, dream they audibly, and if we can but still the humming cares and chattering excitements of life, we may hear them dream, and 'tis that hearing which doth make us 'poets. Come, won't you take a game of billiards V' "Certainly," said I ; " we should take the poetry and prose of life together, like bread and cheese." CHAPTER VL He was a man to look upon, and turn, and look upon again. Mir Rumar.. Two or three days after the conversation which I have recorded in the last chapter, I happened to stroll into the drawing-room of the public house, in the evening, and there, to my astonishment, I beheld Emily Wilson and her father. Her presence surprised but did not agitate me. As I looked at her from the other side of the room, I felt no other emotion than the sight of a perfect stranger would have caused ; perhaps even less, because one whom I should see for the first time might excite curiosity and even interest, but her I.regarded with complete indifference. The sentiment which I had once cherished towards her, which was a minglement of fancy and feeling, had passed away like a vapour from the valleys, Which moveth all together, if it move at all. She, to speak accurately, was never, personally, the object of my love, but another and ideal being, fashioned by visionary conception, standing in, her place and bearing her name, but having no greater identity or even correspondence with the real person, than that representative phantasm which our mind conjures up, when we hear the name of some distinguished man, and invests with character and circumstance, and loves and hates by accident, bears to him whose title it usurps., in respect of the point whence I regarded the world', and the medium through which I looked, was as an alien and a stranger to my former self. A frame and a system of feeling, created by the imagination may change at the bidding of imagination. However wide it be extended, deeply seated and long established, it will always change when the view changes; and man,'who in regard to his inward nature • and self-relation; never rare ", may, ail to his plans and external sentiments, be,transfarmed for ever in an instant. Sych differences had occurred to me ; I had come out into the active world, and become a man among men ; the visionary eye haotturned to a cairn scrutinizing look ; the glory and the dream" had passed into common light. So completely finished end rounded of were those former dreams that I could turn theni over in my memory and feel how fully they were past and gone. Of my love there remained naught but a great recollection ; and as I gazed upon the being before me, I could recur to my former feelings and their object as to matters, whence to the form I viewed there ran no chain of sympathy. I had left, as I thought, those yearnings with the years which owned them, and henceforth another race was to be run. Alas! I was unaware that the soul knows not to forget, and that feeling which once has flowed, though it may ebb, and its ebb may be for years, yet ceases, as little as the sea. I paused for a moment to review the relation in which we stood and had stood. Whatever I might be or have been, Emily it. was quite manifest had no regard for me; and this conclusion I reached by a knowledge of the ordinary state and course of feeling among the ordinary tenants of the world.. She had_ smiled at our youthful attachment,—perhaps forgotten it altogether : and now I was to her but an unnoticed point in the circle around her. Whatever shadows might lie upon her heart, none could be cast there by the thought of me; whatever,lights might sun her vision, none could be brought to image my form. I could not err in a conclusion which was founded on the opinion that a three years' silent absence was on the calendar of a woman's heart, an absence for ever. I felt well assured that my presence would be observed with perhaps greater insensibility by her than hers had been regarded by nie. As I approached her, I saw a person of very striking appearance sitting near her and conversing with her in that low and winning voice which is so irresistible in its influence on woman ; which, though the remarks may be ever so impersonal, yet,—like sitting in a low chair at a respectful distance, or any other of the thousand tricks of an ingenious lover, suggeots, the suggeition is ever* thing. She seethed to be tisteniv to him with great interest, and plainly exhibited in her manger that emolion of regard which, when it exists strongly, it is scarcely possible for woman to conceal. " Ah ! Mr. Stanley !" said she, as I saluted her, ZI understood that ybu.were here, and t am tot ad to see you, for the last time I met you, you disappeared so suddenly and so oddly that I had scarcely time to renew my old acquaintance with you. Pray, what became of you that day that you came into our house like a shadow and departed like its shade " The dust' drove me to the sea," said I; " and I cannot but applaud the Nappy instinct which led me to the place which you were about to -visit." She presented the stranger to me as Mr. Tyler. The gentleman rose with dignity, and as he came more fully under my notice, I thought that I had scarcely ever seen a more remarkable countenance. There was upon it that stamp of individuality which would have arrested observation under almost any circumstances. His face indicated a man of about twenty-eight years, and yet his hair was a good deal tinged with gray. His cqmplexion was clear but something pale; if I may use the expression, singularly clean. His keen but steady gray eye, very slightly closed,—a circumstance rather visible in a wrinkle on the cheek than by any diminution of the orb, —met an observer with iron resolution. His mouth, a little compressed, as with musing, had an air of pleasantness which was on the point of being a faint smile. The whole air of his face, though beaming with intelligence and marks of soul, was wonderfully cold and, composed, and gave him the appearance of one constantly on his guard against all excitement. His brow,—a -peculiarly broad and noble one,---was constantly lined by a faint and not displeasing frown,—a circumstance which afforded a remarkable- contrast to the calmness of his lip and gave his countenance an expression at once pensive and firm. One would have felt a liking for such a man on the shortest acquaintance; but would not, I suspect, have ventured to take a liberty with him even after the longest intimacy. I have been somewhat particular in my de- ...V Ia.'	•	li. ^•• AA, . • scrtption of this person, for . had subsequently occasion to compare the appearance with the reality. His conversation was rich and various ; he never introduced the topic of diseourse,.and never appeared inclined to take tpe lead and control of the company ; but upon every subject that was brought forward, he spoke so and so . much as less to display the positive •wealth of his mind, than to leave upon you the impression of an intellect vigorous toward every quarter, and of resources limited by no common bounds. There was no effort to please, apparent in his conduct, but rather 'a tone of reserve, and carelessness of the effect of his conversation ; in fact, in the manner of his remarks there seemed to be a want of sympathy with others, though there was none whatever in the matter of them. There was a fine damask rose 'lying upon the table, and to interrupt the awkward silence which is apt to oc, cur upon the meeting of entire strangers, Miss Wilson took it up with a trifling observation. " My cousin," said she, " brought it to me to-day. and I have rarely seen a finer one. We were talking, Mr. Tyler, of some of the productions of the pencil. but what has art too show in any department comparable to this simple production of nature After all,' that which we can do, is but a soiled image of that which we can find." " Permit me," said Mr. Tyler, in a fine, educated tone, " to correct your observation, as to the filet, and to qualify the inference which you deduce from it. It is to human skill that you owe the chief beauty of the rose ; culture has, indeed. added nothing new, but it has so multiplied the leaves, and so enriched the tints, that the improvement looks like a new creation. Man is as useful in ripening nature's beauty, as nature is useful in refreshing man's taste." " Are you any thing of a botanist r said I. "I know the science, generally," replied Tyler, " but not minutely—the extent and variety of its objects, but not their technical system and classification. I am, like the poet, Contented if I may enjoy The things which others understand: and while I have observed with pleasure that there is herein matter for a science, I have resolutely ignored all its details. To appreciate fully any one of the fine arts,—and the remark is especially true of what may be called nature's fine arts,—all that is required is a superficial acquaintance with the method of composition, and an information of the difficulties which have been overcome in the construction ; any knowledge, farther than that, creates a taste mechanical rather than wsthetical. We look upon a flower, a picture, or a temple, not to discover in what new form the spirit of beauty has been evolved, but to inquire with What number of petals, what mixture of colours. and' what principles of proportion the production has been fashioned. As knowledge advances, love retreats. There are no mortal minds capacious enough, at once, to know accurately and to love warmly : none in which intelligence and feeling advance together. In man's mental character a single feature must predominate; the frame of his spirit, must he one, the direction of his tastes, exclusive. And it is in this that lies his inferiority to the highest intelligence—that the march of his intellectual progress is linear, not circular ; his capacity for every end is perhaps unlimited, but his destiny is, to chime In the notion which I form of almighty mind, I do not contemplate merely one faculty infinitely advanced, and separately exercised, but all modes, forms and branches of spiritual manifeStation co-existently infinite ;—a sensibility of feeling to which the highest ardours of the lyre shall he coldness —a stern omnipotence of power which can transfiwm while it gazes—and a comprehensive reach of knowledge which can count the downy features of a rose-leaf, even while it is exploring the fertile machinations of a demon : all harmonising in perfect and equal developement. If man, however, be confined to select between knowledge, and love, whose base note also is religion, there can be little doubt as to the choice, if its guide shall be the happiness and elevation of humanity. Knowledge raises us above the brutes, but love erects us above ourselves. Still botany is a gentle science, and, I doubt not, as lovely as the objects which it contemplates, and the sex which generally affects it." " It is the only science," said Emily, " with which I •^• i	 ^r• la = • • have any acquaintance ; but I dislike the 'tame Of a proficient, for a learned lady is a kind of monster." " So is the garden rose," replied Tyler, " the queen of flowers, the flower of Venus,—a monster by the laws of the science ;—but a lovely one." " I love flowers excessively," said Emily, and I do not like to be without one at any season of the year. • A work just finished is always engaging: they are the only things in nature whiCh are always young—whobe time of life is ever in the dawn. There is in them neither senescence nor decay, but death arrives without a precursor." " There is certainly," said Tyler, addressing himself solely to the lady, and speaking with more enthusiasm than from his ordinary manner I should have anticipated, " nothing more interesting than the world of flowers. With what careless prodigality, earth throws them out, masterpieces of infinite finish ; all different, each perfect: Their very frailty and evanescence is argument of nature's power ; for how unbounded must be the resources of that artist who can ldvish such ornaments upon the playthings of an hour. Perhaps nothing has afforded so much delight to so many, as these simple objects : nothing has gladdened so many bosoms, brightened so many eyes, cheered so many hearts ; nothing has enlivened philosophy by so many allusions and enlightened truth by so many illustrations. Lord Bacon loved to have flowers near him when he wrote, saying they refreshed his spirits and memory, and in one of his essays he has expressed his fondness for seeing them growing together on their banks ; with that infantile gentleness of taste which ever belongs to genius, he writes to one of his friends, in the darkest hour of his misfortunes, " I hope to be with you in a few days, and to gather some violets in your garden ;" a beautiful and wise affection. -- Much as I always preferred Erasmus to any of his contemporaries, I have loved him better since I saw in Durer's portrait of the scholar, a small vase of fresh flowers standing on his desk."- " I never so fully realised," said I, " how essentially stern and fierce was the temperament of Lord Byron, as when it once occurred to me, thrtt saving one allusion to the rope for the purpose of mentioning the passion of the nightingale, he has no reference whatew in his poetry to flowers. When we remember in the case of Wordsworth, how in woven with every suggestion of his heart, and every conclusion of his intellect is the worshipping love of flowers, the circumstance affords an interesting evidence of the relation of these two poets to one another by showing their bearing and distance in reference to a common point " " Yes," said Tyler, " Wordsworth's genius has been fed upon daisies ; nor has the aliment been unsufficient. For, though to the unpurged mortal ears, there be neither voice nor language among them, yet to the soul how audible, how significant is their speech. Gay as their robes, they can discourse a deep divinity preaching,in their silent seats ; but. the language which they best know, is the gushing language of love. How often have the tender stalk and frail cup of the lily borne the weight of a heart's deep affection, and delivered their burden safely ! How often has the rose-bud .expounded what the tongue could not tell, and interpreted between a beating heart and a downcast eye! Verily, it likes me not to see these bosom-cherished, world-worshipped treasures, these chaste pledges, which have been the honoured memorials of a Queen's affection, the hallowed testimony of a peasant's love, falling into the hands of a ' fingering slave,' who tears them to pieces, numbers their stamina, and flings them into the dust beneath his feet." " I can scarcely bring myself," said I. " to believe that knowledge has this benumbing influence on feeling. The fault seems to be less- the fult of learning than of its followers. It is not science which injures the nature of its cultivators, but its cultivators who injure the character of science. A professor's heart is the very altar of creation's choicest marvels. I cannot understand the coldness of one always • rthe sun.' " " Yet an altar may be of marble, and the sun may breed agues?' replied Tyler. " Natural want of sensibility is never so militant in its aversion as that disgust which succeeds the exhaustion of sensibility. When subjects of feeling become matters of business, a habit of ruthlessness is induced, by nature's instinct against pain, of which the mildest degree is apathy. Man does not seem capable of deriving two distinct sorts• of gratification, from the same object at the same time ; and when we begin to draw pleasure, which we soon do, from the mere perception of beauty in the order of a system, we cease to regard the independent attractions of the objects of that system. Scientific coolness is not less inevitable and scarcely less shocking than professional coolness. As there is no wickedness so remorseless as that which has marched over the ruins of virtue, so there is no insensibility so rampant as that which scowls above the wreck of tenderness. Who is the person that cares least for the sufferings of the sick Precisely he who most frequently witnesses them ; not the one from whom sympathy has never been evoked, but the one in whom it has been crushed by use. If inquiry were made for that person who should feel least 'emotion at the sight of any given scene of interest, a statue or a battle-field, it would be found to be he whose office it is to exhibit and describe its beauties. Ignorance may prevent the birth of sensibility, but farniRarity strangles it when full-grown ; and from that grave there is no resurrection It is for this reason that I am inclined to doubt whether an intimate acquaintance with science will ever produce a favourable effect upon the moral system of even the most happily constituted natures, and whether the modern technical and artistic education of young ladies is likely to excite that generous enthusiasm, which, when rightly directed, is the mother of so many virtues. That which we understand, we are, unless we exert great caution and self-control, apt to deem commonplace ; and inexhaustible in their impressiveness, as are the miracles of nature, I doubt whether, constituted as we now are, that appreciation which springs from intelligent comprehension will ever keep pace with that admiration which is the offspring of wonder. Hence the richer poetry and deeper piety of the popular mind of antiquity. And, let me tell you, the virgin instinct of downy feeling is the potentest guard of virtue, and the most inerrant guide of intellect." Mr. Wilson, who• had joined his daughter a few moments before., now entered into the conversation. He was something of a politician by nature,—men are born so,".—and a good deal of a monarchist by education. An ardent admirer of the Anglican form of government, he rarely suffered an opportunity to pass without contrasting its several merits with what he deemed the antagonist faults in the system of his own country. " The study of Which you speak," said he, "in comrhon with all the sciences and nearly all the arts, needs for its support in this country, all the assistance which ever misguided enthusiasm can lend to it. Under a policy which directly encourages study by providing its ancillaries, where the honours of its professors give dignity to the profession, men may speak with moderation of the advantages of mental effort without fear of degrading it in the eyes of the multitude ; but under our unfortunate ungovernment it must be permitted to 'studious men to exaggerate the benefits of their occupation, if we would have it attract regard amid the din of " noiseful gain" and the distractions of commercial pursuit. To expect that the government of a large republic like ours, should be the foster-father of an abstract study, is idle. Such studies are 'countenanced, not by calculation, which is general, but by sentiment, which is indiVidual ; and monarchies always exhibit a personal form of feeling, republics a corporate want of it." " You are a hopeless tory, Mr. Wilson," said Tyler, " and I feel that you are much beholden to my good nature for answering your objection quietly, which I am going to do, and not handing you over to the tender mercies of Sir Mob. The argument in the precise form in which you present it,--I regard merely the political face of it, as the purport of your remark is manifestly to shift the conversation from a defence of science to an attack on the republic,—admits of no reply. That the American government will never show itself so generous a patron of all that is merely honourable and of good report, as the English government, is most true. But let us not be deceived by. the misuse of terms, and infer from this any thing discreditable to the nation or discouraging to science. The word government has widely diverse meaning as applied in these two cases. The government of England dots not signify a temporary assembly of two companies, variously gathered and slightly conjoined. for the purpose of passing a few general regulations: it reaches more deeply, and numbers among its constituents all the interests of the people upon all subjects. The whole municipal, educational, and religious systems of the country, the wealth and the blood of the land. are integral parts and members of it, and not, as among us, things apart. It is so interwoven with the nation, that it expresses the whole feelings of the nation, and is the nation's own form and image,—ita very body. The English people act• on all occasions through the channel of government. In short, the British government is but the synonyme of the British nation. But the American constitution is a very different matter ; it, represents only so mu. h of the general interest as shall remain in the crucible, after all individual feelings have been evaporated, and all partial predilections molten down. The great mass of the popular action remains with the people; it has never been put into representation. To demand. then, that the government should embody interests which have been formally discorporated from it, is to demand what it was not intended should be found. In England the public acts by the government ; in America it acts apart from it. In one country the government purchases a mueeurn ; in the other an individual or a private corporation does it; in both, it is the public which does it, by authorizing the one and supporting the other. That patronage and countenance fir which in England you look to the government, must in thi country flow from societies, companies, or the general public. Hitherto the example of England has impeded the developentent of the true character of the American system, by leading us to look fir and even occasionally to force them, in the details of a policy, the principle cif which is utterly distinct : but when, in the course of time, the true nature of our consti- tution shall have been generally apprehended, and popular feeling and effort learn to flow through the proper and intended conduits, the result will be as honourable as in the rival land. A bird may reach the same end that its human owner does, but it cannot he expected to do it by the same means ;—the principle of progression is different." " Your notion," said Mr. Wilson, " is certainly deserving of consideration. I understand you to mean that, in one case, government is actually the associated nation, in the other, only the ligament which affects the association; that in England the state Is to the people what the body is to the soul, the one instantaneously acting the volitions of the other, and both so intimate in their junction that a political Hobbist might presume them identical : that in America the government is to the people what the feet are to the rest of the body, merely carrying the person along, while the head' and hands act distinctly. This severance of the institutions of the country from the politics of the country is assuredly most wise for the interests of the latter; for it, together with the slightness of the political bond, which is not a hard knot, but a system of compensating slip-knots, well nigh renders revolution' a word of none effect. In England, if you prostrate the universities, the church, or the gentry, you revolutionise the government ; here, you may lay every thing low, and that abstract thing, the government, lives on. But the evil is on the other side. Is there not danger that public impulse, wanting appointed channels, may for ever lose the name of action,'—that the soul, unvested in a body, may be an airy nothing.' " ' " There is no moral phrenology, Mr. Wilson," said Tyler. " by which to read in the forehead of the infant people, the career of the adult nation. All that we can do is to note the advantages and the means, and trust to the innate virtue of humanity, that the means will be adopted and the advantages improved. For my part, though no patriot, and having neither feeling nor profit at stake, I am interested as a philosopher in the came that is playing. I assemble around me a family of bright-eyed hopes, and when fortune seems to frown, I say calmly with the knight in the enchanted cavern of Montesinos, Patience ! and shuffie.the cards.' " " As tolhe stability of the government," said I, " I have no fears ; for what has it to fall from ? The only cause which-ever occurred to me as likely to interfere fatally with the administration of power, and disarrange permanently the organisation of the system, is the want of sinecures and rewards, and offices of dignity. When a general or an admiral returns victorious in England, the nation's obliEations are expressed by a pension or a' title, •,••^••	AP. • offices of recompense and honour ; here there exists no mode of displaying gratitude but by the bestowal of an office of, trust. This notion of regarding a public office of trust as a reward to the occupant is so false as to be almost ludicrous; and if there be any fatal error in the American policy it Jies at that point ; and the nation will perish by its own disinterestedness. Over the water heroes' are disposed of in.anothe:r way, and those whose very eminence in war is merely proof of their incompe- tency as statesmen, are not allowed to fire the ship within, by way of reward for having saved it from the external danger of the waves." Vet, on the other hand," said Tyler, " this popular predisposition in favour of military, men may be of high service by way of antagonist tendency in a system of compensation of evil, For the master danger in our state seems to me to be of another complexion. The fear of what is called a military despotism,' you as well as I know to be one of those idle weeds which has been transported from the old world, and which has no possible existence in this country. The, only probable source of monarchical power,—and that is a very probable one, is in the effect of interested and diplomatic arrangement, in the organisation of party. The elements of pacific despotism are now more numerous and combinable in America than they have ever before been in any country. The possibility of despotism is always in proportion to the existing means and facilities of abstract influence. . No means of influence is so great as the press. There are officei enough in, the disposal of government to buy the whole press; and a party combined by the possession of office and its expectation, may quietly hold predominence by a bare majority, and perpetuate itself. Here, then, is the advantage of ' heroes,' that when matters are in this conditibn, one of them may be brought forward on the other side, and by force of enthusiasm, beat down calcu- lation ; and thus. as occasion shall demand, the tiger may be brought against the crocodile, and the two monsters may, Munchausen-wise, devour one another." " But," said Mr. Wilson, " these incessant conflicts and struggles will surely wrack the system to pieces ; there is nothing can stand such knocking about." " Our government," replied Mr. Tyler, "is framed for the very purpose of being kicked about ; and, like the Giaour in Vathek, its being occasionally used as a football, does not prevent its resuming at any time its original character of erectness. It is like a ship-compass, hung for sea.service: wherever it may be pitched it never loses its centre of gravity. It may however• be doubted whether our system, admitting its continuance, is likely to advance the character of community over which it presides in the same degree with other forms of government. The great defect in our nation lies in the want of an aristocracy. Without it no people can make certain progress in refinement and elevation of character. An aristocracy represents the past ; it treasures up the experience and. improvements of ages : it furnishes a touchstone to the hasty changes of the present, and reminds men of the judgments of memory, and of their connexion with posterity. But we must wait for time to establish those advantages which time only produce. The fewness of the benefits held out by the American experiment strikes me as a most favourable indication of the success of the undertaking. It began with no such high auguries as have presided over the commencements of other cornnaonwealths ; its aim was vastly lower,—its inception vastly more restrained ; and the omen of moderation has attended the birth of no other republic. The anticipated advantages which led to it were not conceived in the teeming brain of a poet ; but coldly calculated in a ledger-book. It was a hard. dry, prosaic scheme,—an arithmetical revolution ; resting not on a motto from Plato, but on a small refractory balance of dollars and cents on the •	debtor' side of a Quaker's account-book. It was calmly suggested by the cool-hearted Washington, and deliberately planned by the dry-headed Franklin,--a man whose mind was a cyphering machine, by which he could in an instant calculate the par value of an idea,—who was a walking square and compass, and might almost he said to have thought in figures. So far forth, our republic has, for practical purposes, the advantage over all which have gone before it. Its local superiority is also great ; it has no one vast city upon which all depends ; and its capital is a place which, never can -be large. This protects the political structure from the danger of perishing in municipal broils. Rome was the Roman Empire, and the want of Panem het Circences' in the metropolis might destroy the government. This state of things among us, though favourable to the exercise of a despotic spirit by our rulers, is a happy circumstance for our tranquillity, and the day of the removal of our seat of government to a populous city will be the last day of our union. The extent of our country, which creates a dispersion of passion and an equilibrium of divellants, is also fortunate. Local interests are large enough to absorb the floating factiousness of the people, and prevent its settling on any one vital question. Even if the topic of the union.ever ,becomes paramount, and the four great sections of the country all pill asunder, there are always three against any one: so that the union is like a 'pillar which stands erect by being drawn equally towards the four quarters of the compass. The progressive extension of the States towards the south-west is to be regarded with especial complacency: for that part being southern by climate, society and soil, and western by its trade along the river, becomes the clasp of those two great chains ; and our whole circle will be a double arch, with one key-stone at New York and the other at New Orleans. But the great ark of our safety is the spirit of trade. Commerce as a conservative or destructive element in modern states, has never yet been fully estimated. It strikes me as by far the most potent of all the influences now in operation ; and it alone is revolutionising Europe. To us, however, it is an unalloyed blessing ; for it is daily wearing away those local prejudices and that stiff regard to principle which was most likely to pull our house over our ears. You observe that its tendency is to break down passion and substitute a calculation of interest as. the mainspring of 'action. A rail-road from Charleston to Philadelphia would knock nullification in the head for ever. America is by far the most interesting spot in the world to a philosopher. Here is a people growing up as free as the oak on the summit of a mound tain; with no control,—no precedent,—no history,—no past. It is a splendid sight, and I am glad that I live to behold it. We shall see what man will become when there is nothing within him but a heart of oak,—nothing around him but .the open race-ground,—nothing above him but the God of Heaven: All starting fairly, all equippedalike, Gilled alike, and eagle-eyed, true-hearted. See if we cannot beat the angels yet:" In a few minutes Ma. Tyler withdrew and I remained alone with Emily and her father. " A person of bold opinions," salt) Mr. Wilson. " A liery agretable person !" said his daughter. A strange thing is the vocabulary of woman ! inconb municable and often unimaginable are the notions which they attach to words! I have long since learned that where they are concerned, a thing can never be uader-. stood with certainty from a word, and a word not often be understood by inference from the thing. But of all the mystical words which a woman uses, the most mysterious is the word " agreeable." They apply it alike to the grave and the gay, the pious and the profane, to the rattling wit who is never silent, and to the dull dunce whose existence is only testified by an occasional nod. What ihp lady, in the present case, could have meant by saying that a person who had discoursed for half an hour upon politics, 'was agreeable, it might he difficult to ascertain with precision. Probably the speaker's ardent sympathy in a taste for flowers had gratified the feelings of his auditor, to which his subsequent grave conversation had added an impression of respect, and from the two conjoined sprang that indefinite liking, which was embodied in this cabalistic word " agreeable." I turned to Mr. Wilson to inquire who Mr. Tyler was. " I know nothing of his history," he replied. " I have met him occasionally in society, but scarcely ever conversed with him before. He is a student, I' believe, more than any thing else." There was a calm resolution in his eye, and a rich confidence in his flexible lip, which indicated to me, one who had gazed upon scenes more brilliant and exciting, than the cold, still page of the learned tome. VOL. i.	 •	r CHAPTER. VII. •	• ,- Si fractus illabatur orbit Impavidum facient ruins. HORAT. WilyTHER I was excited by the conversation to which I had been listening,„or whether the bright Moonlight made me restless, by an influence whicik I have	often felt that attribute it to a kind of lunar magnetism, I know not ; but L found it impossible to sleep that.raght. The heavens were as clear and serene as the intelligence 'of aro angel, and the moon was lofting down in queenly splendour. To court repose was useless ; so after tossing wakefully for several hours I rose, and descen&ing quietly, made my way into the open air. The portico of the house was shaded by a small roof; and I paused under it a moment to look out upon the scene. There ran from the sea towards the house at a little distance a thick row'of large trees, whose deep covering completely intercepted the light of the moon. &While I lingered en the porch I perceived the faint image of two men standing under these trees, apparently engaged in earnest conversation, for occasionally a low and suppressed sound of words reached my ear, though no part of their remarks could be distinctly heard Unwilling to be even the accidental witness of a communication in which I had no concern, and which was plainly intended to be private, I gave an indication of my whereabout, by walking' with some noise, along the portico in the opposite direction. On turning round after a little while, the men were no longer to be seen, and I dismissed the circumstance ehtirely froth my mind. While I strolled along the beach meditating, various fancies, I saw at some distance upon the bank above me, two men coming upward in the direction in which I was. As far as I could judge from their appearance, they were the same persons whom I had seen before conversing in the shade. There happened to be a large rock near rue on the shore, and willing to avoid the awkwardness of • t•	 .meeting peksons at such an hour, I withdrew behind Shadow, intending to remain there till they were As they carne opposite to me, their coniersation was so • loud that in the stillnest of fhe nitht • I cooed nt "WO bearing it. " The boy," said one of the men in a calrp clear tone, mid as he spoke was sure that I had heard tite voice, Nit 'when and where I 'could not by any effort call to remembrance, " the boy, Seward, though treating air with greet' civility, has, I perceive, taken a dislike to me. • I retquireitito day remove the impression ; on tip second night after this I will send him to you. You wi, of course recejvchim kindly." : Never fear for that," said the other, with a low, chuckvling laugh, As for Stanley," resumed the first speaker, " we will leave him till his return to town. " He	here the increasing distance prevented my hearing any more. The fear of being seen and being thought an intentional auditor of a private discourse, compelled me to remain till they were out of sight;. and I- lost the opportunity of discovering who they were. The remarks which I had heard, filled me with a good deal of surprise and curiosity. I had heard my own name and that of Seward mentioned by these men in a conneiion, and for a purpose which I did not understand. Who they were, and what was their plot, I could not imagine. Excepting the persons whom I . &lye before mentioned, there was no one at the shore who knew me and Why I should be selected as the victim of any scheme was what I could not well discover. The voice of one of the speakers was certainly familiar to my ear ; and this circumstance increased my perplexity. I remained beside the rock for a considerable length of time, reflecting upori the extraordinary conversation which I had heard. Presently the sound of footsteps struck upon my ear. indicating the approach of some one along the beach from the quarter toward which the others had gone. I waited unconsciously in the shade until he %as quite near me, when, as I did not wish to be detected in a hiding-place, for he was coming directly towards me, I stepped out a little distance into the moonlight. I perceived after a moment's observation that it was Mr. Tyler, the person to whom I had been presented on the preceding evening. He came up to me with frankness and an air of pleasure, and said in a very hoarse tone of voice, " Good evening, sir, or rather, perhaps, good mornini ! for I think that the noon of night must be passed. I owe it to my.character to tell you why I am found here at this hour, and to relieve myself from the charge of romanticising by the sea at midnight. The mere truth is that the moon stared so fiercely into my windows that I Ibund it impossible to sleep, and so I came forth to refrest, myself in the air. The splendour of the night has tempted me to walk farther I fear than I ought to have done, and• the dampness of the sand has given me a severe hoarseness." " I am rather surprised at that," said I, " considering the extreme warmth of the day and the dryness of the night., Although in general very susceptible of cold, I have not perceived any moisture in the soil." " Have you been long here ?" said Tyler, looking up at the moon and gaping, as he swung his cane round his hand. " For some time ;" I replied, " and we are not the only watchers, for there past me just now two persons in the direction from which you came. I am surprised that you did not meet them." " I did not see them," said he ; " they probably turned off to a gambling-house which is just above us. Wore I met them. Let the virtuous and the studious labour late as they may, the vigil of passion will outlast their waking." " i know not why you should apologise," said I, " for being met on a spot like this : for there is to the man and the philosopher, as well as to the poet • excellent voice' in the silence of this air. The contemplation of a scene so pure and vivid is like a new creation of the celestial spirit. We long retain the influence of such communion, in the calmness of the temper and the dignity of the mind, in the concord of the energies and the repose and harmony of the passions : and it has power as teacher one higher and more sanctified conclusion. Few will fail to trace the fdrm of Deity in the o'er-mastering tempest and the impetuous whirlwind—the storm, and the struggle of the elements—but to me there is in this ominous stillness —this expectant silence—more emphatic mark of an Almighty presence." Tyler listened motionless to my remarks, and when I had finished, replied, with resolute accent. " There is but one God, and his name is, PRUDENCE. His seat is the human intellect ; his minister, the right hand of man. Suffer not yourself, sir, to .be the slave of your own fancy, or, worse, of your own fears. You stand here amusing your understanding with notions of an external and all-pervading power, and beguiling the time, harmlessly, as you think, by the strong visions of the mind ; not perceiving how poisonous is the air you breathe—not knowing that, your folly is forging adamantine fetters for your wisdom. It is by this fatal indulgence, from youth to manhood, of the creative powers of imagination that the original vigour of man is enchained and crippled ; that the lord totters to a slave and the weakness of nature prevails over its strength. In another sense than the poet's—intellectually and morally—the child is father of the wan ;' and he mostly rules him with the sway of a Jewish sire. Man goes through life, terrified by the demon apprehensions which scared his- unformed youth. The foolish suggestions of an idle nurse are the tyrant terrors of his manly being. Notions planted by the cradle, overshadow and darken his mature existence, and the ripened intellect is the vassal of the ungrown fancy. Men thus prepare their own subjection—rough hew the sceptre of a liege. They wander on crouchingly, with faces bent towards the earth, till anon there arises one who knows to think, and dares to act his thoughts, and he, mounting upon this trellis-work of superstition and mental tyranny, rears an empire over the weakness of his fellows. Such men become the demigods of a nation and give name to eras. Were these men stronger thart their fellows ? No, but they were freer !, Were they clearer-minded, or farther-sighted ? ND, they were only freer! Were they wiser, better, more laborious, more enduring*? None of these things: their .freedom was the magic of their might ! it was not that they could think deeper ; it was that they did think t it was not that they could act more vigorously ; it was that they did act! 'Resolution was their guide, and confidence their strength. When danger, or the dread of it, encompasses the soul-- when timidity fluctuates and excitement roars—who then controls g Not he, whose intellect is most-logically practised—whose memory is richest stored—whose tongue is brightliest eloquent : but he whose eye blenches least= whose heart beats the calmest: he, it is; is master of the hour. Reason, learning, and words perish in such moments, and the hand of iron turns the scale. Feeling and fancy are the creeping plants that rise and rend the foundations of the mind. They are cumbrous garments which the athlete of ambition' must fling to the ground : he must strip for the contest, and come naked to the encounter. If you would. place yourself at the summit of your most daring wish, trust your own intellect ; hold it equal to all things, and rest assured that by the law of the universe, matter yields to mind, and the feeble will is governed by the stronger. Inscribe upon your portfolio in the time of peace—engrave upon your breastplate in the hour of battle—' Who trusts himself, is master of man* kind.' Upon this alone," placing his finger upon his forehead, " upon this alone have I depended in life, and amid all the trials of a most tempestuous life, it has never failed me. It has protected me amid the clash of swords; when I stood unarmed—amid the wily machinations of diplomatists, when I stood unsupported, and amid the confusion of human passions, when I stood, the central aim of circling hate." " But surely," said I, " sentiments so exalted in their origin, cannot he so degrading in their influence. Religion came from heaven." " And so did Satan." " But what is more noble and more ennobling," said I, " than the great scheme of Divine superintendence ; and its such it has been accepted by the most elevated mind. There is a stooping which exalts." " Religion," replied Tyler, " is sometimes the resort of virtue, but oftener the refuge of cowardice. The idea of a God and of moral responsibility was invented by the strong to establish their dominion, and accepted. by the feeble to excuse their weakness. By the doctrine of a hopeless perdition by nature, man is kept everlastingly, in a state of tutelage ; by the notion that atonement for the past is to occupy the whole life, man can never look forward to enterprises for the future, and his whole strength and resources are applied under direction to the removal of an imaginary evil. No one can believe what he has not seen, except by the force of imagination ; and in proportion to the vigour of that faculty will be the ft& ness of his faith. The evils of religion, then, I charge directly upon the culture, developement, and indulgence of imagination ; for without the visionary faculty, no scheme of religion could exist." " You forget," I answered, "that Christianity was framed for this very purpose, to withdraw men from this world and to lead them to another : if then by the practical workings of the scheme men are unfitted for life, the result but forcibly conspires with the design." " I cannot understand," replied he, " the justice of that view which overlooks the duties of one great portion -of our eternal existence; which expunges all the natural and necessary obligations of our human condition. God who works never without design, surely intended great results from our mortal state, planned a great and independent system of worldly destiny to join and fit in with the whole continuous scheme of everlasting human action, and meant our noisy years' to be a distinct and important element in the being of the eternal silence.' That system of which one of the particulars is that the world and all that it inherits is a zero in value, a ruin to the soul, and a blemish in creation, is nothing else than system of practical blasphemy." " What permanent, external obligations," said I, " can reasonably exist in a world so fleeting as this? Or what settled plan of present and isolated performance can possibly be intended for a life which we hold by so precarious a tenure! Talk you of the value of worldly schemes when the proudest schemers are dropping constantly around you in the very centre and crisis of momentous `action! When the planter in one field is struck down with the seeds in his hand, and the reaper in another lies dead with the sicklerat his feet! Shall man whose breath is in his nostrils,' build himself the, habitation of a god His palace shall be his sepulchre, and his hopes his winding-sheet. Before you ask me why we are placed here, answer me why we are taken hence ; the death of a single infant confutes your theory. When Ferdinand visited Ximenes at his new University, he objected to the frailty of the structure, that it was built but of wood and plaister : • Thus, king r replied the prelate, does it become man to labour, who lives in continual expectation of death, and may be covered with marble hereafter.' The world was made for man : Man and the world were made for God. Sir, you have a wisdom which is not wise."- " You, I perceive," said Tyler, after a pause, " are a Christian. So am not ." " I believe in Christianity," said I, " as I believe in my own existence: with the same certainty, and on the same ground—consciousness. But the course of the modern professors, in attempting to establish it by arguments has been so monstrously ahsurd, that I am not surprised that infidelity is every where abounding: I am only astonished that any Christians are left on the earth. The Gospel will never triumph until the whole rubbish of evidences' be swept away, and until the great truth be recognised in action, that with the heart the man believeth.' A revelation that needs to be proved is no revelation at all. Let the truth which Christ told of our nature and destiny, be separated from the accidental concomitancy of miracles, and the superfluous appendage of precepts ; let that naked truth be stated, and, my life upon it, not a soul beneath the cope of heaven shall reject." •° By what new and extravagant theories," replied Tyler, " you may in your own mind, reconcile Christianity with truth, I know not. Taking the matter, however, as it is received ; and the general gloss is as likely to be divinely suggested as the particular text to be divinely uttered; I reject the facts which support it, and scorn the doctrines which attach to it. I cannot brook the accent of reproof:' God made me so, and I must be so. I will not cast off my manliness now and put on the vestures of a god hereafter I am contented to be a MAN. Give me free .room, with hand unbound and hair unshorn ; 'Lis all I ask. Energy will never but be blessed, for it brings us nearest to the source of all energy. I will meet the humming drones of religion, at the throne of God, and there debate my claims, and receive my reward, Pardon from Him, who eallcme to Himself To teach me better and exalt me higher He might laugh as I laugh. But I interrupt your meditations; and far myself, it is time to retire." He left me, and I remained alone upon the shore. I followed him with my eye till I saw him enter the door and close it behind him. Short as was the period for which I had known this person, and our acquaintance was not a day old, I had seen enough to excite in my mind respecting him, the most intense interest: There was in his manner, his voice, his language, a power which awed the listener, and seemed to proclaim a mighty spirit within. There is a magnetic quality in genius which inhuences those who approach its possessor, rather by an impression on the consciousness than on the understanding. Intellect slowly vindicates its due respeel by the exhibition of irrefreigable proofs and we bow the knee but not the heart; but genius leaps at the foregone conclusion of triumph ; its very presence rebukes the by-stander, and the instinct of submission anticipates the compulsion of defeat. It was a sensation of this kind, more than by any striking exhibition of superior mental power I recognised in Tyler an object of interest ; and the apparent contradiction in his character Increased my curiosity. He here professed bold and even coarse principles, and seemed to be a man of daring action ; but when I califto mind the refinement of his manner in the drawing-room but a'short time before ; his gentle wit ; his deep, digested, various learning; the thought-worn, meditative look that spake the man of study rather than of deeds, I was extremely puzzled. To me, though little experienced among men, and guided, as the young mostly are, by some inward conviction more than by any external observation, it seemed that an intelligence so strong, so refined, so calmly reigning in its masterdom, gave evidence of a life of serene Meditation and sufficient assurance that its possessor did not struggle with the dominion of evil passions, and did not writhe under the memory of evil deeds. It was the union of ever-burning ardour of soul with never-shaken calmness of mind which made the marvel of this man's nature; for, with rare exceptions, the seeth- ing of a fiery spirit sends up fumes which dim the reason. To the mind of the ordinary man of action there may come grand suggestions of truth, strong apprehensions, and brilliant guesses, but the unimpulsive progress to a wary conclusion, the composed meditation of a just result, seem impossible in that nervous haste which the ex- citement of enterprise usually generates. The agitated waters may flash the light more bravely ; but tp reflect an undistorted image of the orb of day belongs only to the settled lake. The restless spirit argues ; the peaceful mind judges. The strong arm may load the scales, but only the quiet hand can hold the balance. This cautious and qualified manner, as of one who coolly weighed his deductions and patiently reconsidered his opinions, I had noted strikingly in Mr. Tyler's conversation. Few could have even looked upon his clear, intellectual features, rigid, yet glowing with fervour, like a mask of animated steel, without inferring from his face that he was an extraordinary man. His large gray eye combined an iron strength with a gently-musing thoughtfulness ; his com- pressed under-lip seemed the index of an inward energy that never relaxed; and every feature of his face was in- formed with a breathing meaning, and partook separately of that individual character and impressiveness which in an ordinary countenance belong only to the eye. I lingered long upon the shore pondering these and similar thoughts. Despite of myself I could not help say- ing of Tyler, " I fear thee, Ancient Mariner !" and yet reason as well as my experience assured me, that genius is ever essentially magnanimous, and that to highly-cultured and strongly-exercised intellect, generous and elevated feelings attach themselves as essential concomitants. The speculative daring of his doubts and the bold unmasking of his proud sentiments drove away suspicion before them; for though there be a diabolic majesty in the wickedness of a Carathis or a Lady Macbeth, yet common villapy is inherently mean, and social vice is always cowardly. I could at least entertain no personal distrust of one who, by the Studied exhibition of his scepticism, gave me notice of his principles, and put me on my guard in any intercourse I might have with him. The hour was late, but it had been a fruitless effort to attempt to sleep in the state of mind in which I then was. I was too much excited to be capable of repose, and the interest which I felt in unravelling some of the mysteries that lay around me, drove all thoughts of retiring out of my mina The conversation of the persons whom I had seen upon the bank again occurred to me. The voice, the figure and the language of the one who spoke of me, were to striking not to be noted, and they seemed to be familiar to my mind. There was just enough peculiarity to suggest a doubt, but not to embody a distinct suspicion. It seemed problible that the men had gone on directly to the gaming-house of which Tyler spoke- to me, and I determined to go there'at once with the hope of meeting them. I walked, therefore, along the shore in the direction in which they had passed. I had not gone far before it occurred to me, that It might not be prudent to walk in a place so entirely exposed ; my movements might be observed, and the lowness of my path below the adjacent bank and the daylight-like light which the moon shed upon it, rendered it visible to a great distance. I looked round for some more circuitous and concealed way of approaching the spot. I mast here explain more distinctly the situation of the ground, and the position in which I stood. At a small distance to the right of the lodging-house, between it and the opposite shore, there extended a double row of large shady trees, forming a complete interruption to the view, and a sufficient concealment to any one passing under them. Beyond these was a field enclosed on all sides by a high fence, which I had observed during the day, not to extend faith' than the termination of the row of tree& At this time I was considerably beyond the trees and Beyond the outer fence which ran near them ; I walked back, therefore, with the intention of ascending the high bank and going under cover of the shade completely round the field, so as to approach the gaming-house on the rear.. A rude pair of steps brought me the plain above, and from that point the house which I sought was visible at no great distance. I listened for a moment to catch the Sound of any footsteps in he vicinity, but .nothing was audible save the low plash, of the waved beating on the shore. Moving silently_along, I went..up the., avenue. The tangled grass and the high mtg. of the old trees °biked me to walk very cautiously. The shade was deep and concealed me perfcOly, while the objects beyond were exhibited with meridian clearness. The valite light of the moon lay uport the opposite house like day, and so extraordinary was the distinctness with which everx ob- ject was visible to the sight, that I- could riot help.pausing to look at the piospect ; a distinctness even greater than the day, for the glare of the sun forms a sort of cdncealment. While I was looking at the house, I saw the door of it slowly opened. I instantly drew back and.conce,a- Ing myself behind a tree awaited the result. After a short **use. a man came out and closed thp door carefully be-. ' hind him. He was enveloped in a long cloak, with a broad hat ow his eyes and very large whiskers and moustaches. He walked noiselessly along the porch and then leaving it, came towards the trees, apparently to go, as I was going, by the back way to the gaming-house. When he reached the shade, instead of taking the direction I had expected, 'he turned down the avenue, and to my dismay came directly towards me. I remained breathless in my concealment. The stranger came silently on, not through' ther.middle of the path, but very closely to that row of trees under which I was resting. He walked very slowly, his motion apparently impeded by his cloak, and looking round him with great caution. The trunk which sheltered me was large, but I felt almost certain that I should be discovered by him as he passed; and a detection, besides being awk» Ward, might defeat the object which I had in vies. As hp came near, I stooped down and crept silersily round the tree so as to escape his eye if possible as he went by. He was at this time almost upon me, and as I moved he stopped, and then can* directly towards my hiding-place. ' Be paused again and I could hear him breathing. I gave tuna up for lost Without a hope of escape I remained motionless; and he passed on, apparently without having seen me: When he reached the bank he stopped a moment, and looked carefully along the shore and then descended the steps. When he was gone I dame from behind my shield, and proceeded cautiously to the end of the trees. I then tan rapidly road the field and reached the gaming-house. Thy back door stood &jar, and I entered. • VOL: . I. S. A CHAP'T'ER VIII. You paid me' but a hungry compliment To think I should be looked for, there.— I am right glad it was a folly. Bra JONSON. THE gaming-room was quite full. Several tables for whist and ecarte were ranged along the sides, and a hilliard-table stood in the centre. The apartment was a large one and did not connect with any other, excepting by a single door on each sid, which was closed. At a . glance, I perceived that the hero of the cloak was not among the company, but I determined to await his arrival, having already taken it for granted, that it was to this place that he was coming. At the card-tables along the sides, there presided silence deep as " ere the winds were born :" the space to the middle was filled with persons moving noisily about and conversing about the billiards. The contrast between the excitement of a moderate interest and the composure of an intense agitation, was highly impressive. I walked round the room to make my observations on men and things, and to observe the strange varieties of that landscape of Infernal passions—that demon-hoofed highway of hellish contest =—which is called the "human face divine." Glorious art thou, man! and more glorious nowhere than in the depth of thy abasement. As Satan was never more superb in attitude than when he defied the Almighty, from wtere in the lowest deep he lay confounded, " low,. but mighty still," so from amid the thick darkness of degrading vice, thy nature rays forth its heavenliest splendours, and thy visible immortality sits nowhere more divine than behind the veil of thy vilest acts. The interest which thou canst lend to a paltry trial of chances, so that the result shall engross and satisfy the aspiration of heaven's heir, proclaims the all-boundless and exalting nature of thy inward ,resources; 'arid the springing passion, and the sweeping fury, wherewith thou followest the basest ends, sound, ihunder-tongued, thy splenslid spirit and thy godlike destiny ! Other conclusions equally edifying I might have drawn from the scene before me, had not /my meditations been interrupted by the opening of the front-door of the building, opposite to the one by which Thad entered. By the side of this door and bending round in front of it was a movable screen of green lattice-work, behind which I was standing, and which entirely concealed me from the observation of any one coming in. There appeared to be two persons at the door, and though they still lingered outside of the room, their conversation reached my e very distinctly. , " He certainly could not have come in by this doo said one of them, " for I have been standing out here for some time." " If he is not here now, be will be soon," replied the other, and I recognised the remarkable voice of the speaker on the bank, which it now flashed upon me was that of Tyler, as I remembered it from our conversation in the drawing-room; " if he comes, you may as well take advantage of the occasion. Bi populus vult decipi, decipiatur,-,-if the fellow will be fleeced, let him be fleeced;" and the speaker came into the room. To whom this obliging ,speech applied there could be little doubt, and I came from behind the screen to see to whom I was indebted for these charitable intentions. To my astonishment it was the man in the cloak ! He had moved some distance off and was looking round the room : in the course of his survey his eye fell upon me. I looked keenly at him, but he did not testify either by start or look any surprise or embarrassment. His eye fell coldly upon me for a moment and then wandered carelessly to some other object ; the next instant he walked slowly into the adjoining room and closed the door behind him. I remained for a moment irresolute as to the course which I should pursue. I was determined at all hazards to penetrate this mystery, and to discover who was the per- Wye,	^..MI IP son that had thus selected me fbr the victim of a gaming-table plot. Though all the probabilities were against it, the voice of the man gave me strong auspiciong that it might be Tyler. But I could ndt think of any way by which I could certainly meet hits. The room into which be had gone was manifestly not intended for the public, and the consequences of attempting to enter it might be unpleasant. I had, however, just made tip my Mind to do so, when the door opened and the cloaked personage himself came out. The whole time of his absence had probably not been half a Minute. Cautiously concealed as he was, by cloak, hat, false hair, and other methods of disguise, it was quite impoSsible to diStover his real feares: I WM resolved therefore to hear his voice again. AS itwas walking through the room with a careless air and king on the tableS, I bent up and spoke to hitn. " This room," said t, "is extretnely warts ; I Should think you would find your cloak uncomfortable." " It is rather heavy,'; said he with franknese, throwing it on his arm : " have Idst bottle in, and I had drawn it about me on account of the night air." As he removed his cloak I could see his figure, and upon looking closely I could discover his teal features. It was not Tyler, bat a rton altogether different in face though about the same height. Ilis Voice, too, upon hearing it more attentively, *as quite diflerefit in expression, though it had something of the Same clearness of tone. When I coupled with this the entire calmness of his manner when he had first seen me in the rboth, I perceived that I had fallen into a groundless errs*. It was evident that I was in the company of an Ordinary sharper, of whose intentions I Was fortunately aware. rto increase the mystery however he made no attempt to induce me to play, but proposed that we should leave the room. " I came from the hotel," said he, ii tb see if Mr.—I forget the name—Was here, but I find that he has just gone. Perhaps you are ready to go home, and if so, We may go in company." Perceiving no advantage in remaining, and feeling some curiosity to see more of this person, I assented to his proposal, and we left the room together. On out way home I asked him if he knew Tyler. He said that he had heard of him as a man of fortune and fashion, but did not know him. We parted on the second floor of the lodging-house, as his room, he said, was in that story. Mine was in the fourth. Upon reaching my chamber I was anxious to light a candle, but had no apparatus for the purpose. I had observed one room, as I came through the passage, in which a light was burning, and I went out to beg permission to light my own. It was Tyler's room. He was in bed, reading. As I looked at his refined and thoughtful face, I could scarcely help smiling at the absurdity of which I had been guilty in supposing him in any way connected with the gamblers, while at the same time I reproached myself for the injustice I had done the studious and philosophic thinker. As I returned to my room, I saw the man in the cloak coming up the stairs. • CHAPTER IX. If I but knew my foe, the victory half Were gained. Doubts trouble more then ills. Time Must Unfold the mystery. MARLOW& WHEN I awoke the next morning it' was far into the day ; and I was not sorry to have drawn unconsciously on the waking hours to make up the deficiencies of the night. While I was seated at my solitary breakfast, a servant put into my hands a note which he said had been left for me by a gentleman who had gone out on an excursion for the day. The note was from a person whom I remembered as a friend of my father, and with whom I was myself slightly acquainted : its contents were as follows : "Mr.- Roberts presents his compliments to Mr. Henry Stanley, and lets him know that he arrived from town last evening, and has the honour to be the bearer of a verbal communication from Mr. Stanley's father. The latter had come from the south just before Mr. Roberts' leaving the city, for the purpose of arranging some affairs which required the presence of his son at the earliest convenient time. He desired Mr. R. to say that the period of his stay In the north was limited, and that he awaited the coming of his son at — Hotel. Mr. R. would have had the pleasure of presenting his communication in person, but an engagement formed last night compels him to join a party of pleasure at an early hour of the day,—a circumstance which he farther regrets, as it prevents his renewing an acquaintance which he flatters himself is not forgotten. " The Shore, Thursday morning." This was something of a tonne temps,.for it prevented my pursuing any farther the developement of the mysterious plot which I had accidentally detected, and In which I was now a good deal interested. However, My filial obedience prevailed over all older considerations, and I made up my mind to set out at once., Seward indeed, as I had gathered from the conversation which I had overheard the evening before, appeared to be the more immediate object of the intended attack, and by communicating to him what I had heard, and putting him on his guard against any temptation, I might accomplish as much as I could do by remaining. I had a warm regard for Seward,—one always has for a wit without malice, especially if he loves us,—and I was anxious to save so well-natured and unsuspicious a person from the unpleasant predicament of losing his cash. I therefore applied at once to the landlord to know if he was in the house. Gone out, sir," said the landlord, squeezing a lemon. " And when will he be in'!" " About five o'clock in the evening, sir. He went out about two hours ago with Mr. Wilson and his daughter, and Mr. Tyler." " You could deliver him a note, I suppose, as soon as he comes in." " Certainly, sir," replied the landlord. I immediately sat down and wrote a short letter to Seward stating all that I had heard and seen, and what suspicions I had, and having sealed it I delivered it with particular injunctions into the hands of the master of the house, and sat off immediately for the city. On reaching town I drove at once to the hotel which had been indicated in the note of Mr. Roberts as the place where my fhther was staying. I was surprised to learn that no Mr. Stanley was at that time lodging there, nor had been recently. Thinking that some mistake had been made as to the particular house, I went to another in the neighbourhood, and successively to every respectable lodging-house in the city, but with no better success; none of them remembered that any person of that name had ever stayed there. To add to my astonishment I re- ceived that evening a lettet frQrn my father in the south, dating a taw days before, and nokiyg no rnentiop whatever of any intended visit to the aorth. Ilappeiling to be acquainted with the liandwriting of Mr. Roberts, I again consulted the note, which I had In my pocket, and after a close examination I felt Satisfied that it had been written by him. As he lived, howevfor, in the ,vicinity I' enclosed it in a letter to him and begged to know whether it had really proceeded from him. He assured me in reply that the letter was certainty not written by him, though it was so close an imitation of his haitd as at first almost to have deceived himself. I was profoundly amazed at this, and could not for a long time form any plausible conjecture to account for the occurrence. At length It occurred to me that the whole affair might be a contrivance of those gainblers at the shbre to get rid of me, and prevent any communication between myself and Seward. The note, if originating with them, must have been written by some one who had a very intimate acquaintance with the concerns of myllamily, and who that, person could be was more. than I could imagine. There was a mystery in the whole affair which I could not fathom. The autumn was so far advanced that I resolved to remain in the city and refer the resqution of my wonders to the " coming on of time." As I was intending to devote the following winter entirely to the amusements of society, I hired,a decent house in a " fashionable" quarter of the town and occupied myself for a good while in furnishing it according to my taste. There is no business, by the by, that I am acquainted with, more entertaining than that' of furnishing a house, especially if you are a poor man ; for it calls forth the greatest pleasure of which man is capable—the pleasure of running in debt. Shenstqne somewhere remarks—and it is the only striking remark which I have met with in the whole compass of his prose writings—that we always feel a gratification in.paying a bill, and he proceeds to infer from it thie innate goodness of the human heart ; whatever may be the truth of the theory, the fact, though ingenious, scarcely supports it, for great as may be the delight of paying debts, the deiiihi of incurring them is, to my mi*d vaetly greater.	,	• The sense of boundless domination with which one enters a shop—bq it book-store; or ether, where one's credit is yet good—limited by no mean bounds of actual pocket- money, yet tempered throughout and so far forth heighteneI in zest by the feeling circum prtecordia of the future inevitable consequence—the heroic and soul-ennobling resolutiohs and cheering schemes for getting the money by the time it is due, which one makes stronger and wider as one goes deeper and madlier into the depths of credit—the delight of breaking from the customary bonds of poverty and ruling for a while with Crassus' sceptre all form a rare and admirable combination of pleaiures. Wheti one pays down for a purchase, one has a sense of the same loss in money that there is gain in goods—there's the minus of a veritable pro quo as an offset to the valuable quid ; but the debtor has, till payment, the pure gain without any loss.at all—his purchase is as good As a gift or a treasure trove. Then, when a man buys a thing and settles for it, it is hia out and out, and there's an end .on't ; it sinks into a common undisputed possession : but the taker up of goods on tic (or tick,), while he has the dear and full enjoyment of the affair, as much as the other,—yet has besides,—which the other lacks,—that high appreciation of the article, which we always attach to property that is not ours,—he has, during the whole time that the credit runs, the two distinct delights of a calm possession and a ticklish title. Then, again, there is the mild interest of difficulty, and the healthy excite- ment and agitation of raising the " ways and means ;" life grows spirited ; one has something to think of o'nights : as Carlyle says of the French Revolution, " there's a comfortable appearance of work going on." Moreover since it is " aolamen miteris socios hAuiaae doloris," and agreeable also to have something.that links us symptiphetically with departed greatness, we may amuse nififortune, as Bolingbroke did his exile, by ret counting those that have been in like predicament : we may remember how Mirabeau was "obere de defies," how Talleyrand could not pay for his white carriage, the tastefullest in all Paris, how poor Savage sold at the stalls the books which Lord Somebody (Grosvenor, was'nt it ?) had given him,—how Parr had to part with his Stephens's Greek Thesaurus at Norwich, " from sheer distress."—how Goldy was in for £, as• the story goes, when he died,—how Byron had an execution in his house eight times during the first year of his marriage, and how his beds were taken, and how he stamped on his grandmother's watch, and ground it to atoms in a fit of despair, —how Swift, or Shenstone, or somebody else, expatiates, with the eloquence of anguish, on the misery of compelling one hundred pounds to do the work of two ; how Lord Cutts had to get a writ of protection from king William, (the Dutch partner of the firm of William and Mary) to prevent his being outlawed by his tailo- ; how Johnson wrote to Richardson from a spunging-house to borrpw two guineas ; how Fox lost his last farthing at a hell and then lay on his back and read Thucydides; how the nation had to pay the debts of Pilot Pitt and the heir , apparent ; how Sheridan—" but here my heart begins to bleed." Besides there is a certain dignity in being in debt ; of having distresses and cares which every body has not the honour of having ; one becomes a subject of friendly-co'ncern. May lose one's appetite on sufficient cause, and look absent and frown in the street for a reason. Then one -feels a personal importance; there is a responsibility resting upon one : you have stakes somewhere ; somebody cares for you thinks of you often ; you are not utterly alone and lost in the world. Perhaps if you don't pay your creditor, he may fail ; others may " go" in consequence ; and thus upon your conduct hangs matter that may make a talk on 'change: All which is extremely pleasant and amusing to a gentleman of leisure and a quiet book-builder like myself. Other conveniences of " blest book credit" there are, which nothing could worthily portray save that silver ever-pointed pencil which Lamb carried off with him in his waistcoat pocket. Upon the whole therefore I differ with Shenstone acid rather side with the wisdom of that French proverb which assimilates debts to children; if the reader knows what it is, very good ; if not, all the better. One of the most cheerless sensations lever remember to have experienced, was that .whieti stole over me when I awoke one morning, " many a year has past and gone" since then, and remembered that I was out of debt. My " occupation" was gone ; I had nothing to trouble me, nothing to work for, nothing to swear at. I was' condemned to " meditate and gaze," .and suffer from " the waste of feelings unemployed ;" and I did not recover my usual spirits till I had gone out and ordered a cart of bricks into the cellar ; not that I wanted•the dusty things, but for the mere pleasure of having a creditor. Since then, I have never suffered the evil to arise again, as my good friends Mr. —, and Mr. —, and Mr.	feelingly know. They should thank me, (though I fear they do not, ungrateful dogs!) for I cause them that would never pray, to pray for my life. As they are well aware that when I die, I won't cut up worth a —. About three weeks after my arrival in town, as I was strolling through the street, I encountered Seward gazing with ludicrous gravity at a caricature in the window of a print shop. " So," said I, " you are studying humorous pictures for the illustration of malicious bon-mot." " Sir," said he, mechanically, without moving ?ifs eyes, " the charge is as baseless as a Grecian Doric column :", then recognising me, " my dear Stanley ! I am most happy in having a St. Thomas proof of your existence, for you vanished so mysteriously from the shore, Like snow-falls on the river, A moment white, then gone for ever.' that you had either been alienated or escheated to the Lord."	• " There were some gentry down there," said I, " who I suspect would willing!y forward any such scheme, whether of cheating or escheating. I hope you received the note I left for you e " I received no note," replied Seward. " Although I parted with a good many. Do you mean that you left a note for me when you went away from the shore !" Even so. I happened to overhear a conversation which informed me of a plot by somegamblers to relieve you of some of yourloose cash. When I was compelled to 'eve there on business I left a written account of it to be given to you, and I am amazed that you did not revive it, for I put it into the bands of the landlord himself." " It is certainly very strange," said Seward, " and as lamentable ; for that person's neglect, or roguery, and I am somewhat inclined to suspect the, latter, occasioned rather disastrous consequences to me. To give you the history in brief, you must know that on the same day on which you left us, I went out with Tyler ; who by the way is a charming and an honest fellow, though at first I did not like him ; and two or three other persons on an excursion of some distance. In the course of it we fell in with two very gentlemanlike persons who were presented to us by Mr. Wilson who was of the party and happened to know them ; though as he afterwards told us his acquaintance with them was of no longer standing than since his visit to the shore. In the evening, these persons who had during the day much commended themselves to both of us, were sitting with us in a private room, and one of them proposed cards. Tyler chose me for his partner and we sat down. Tyler played extremely well, and I am something of an adept myself; but we rose in a few hours with the loss of a very large sum of money. I as you may imagine was half ruined, and the loss to Tyler, though he bore it like a philosopher, was I •	suspect extremely inconvenient. We were both convinced upon talking the matter over, that the cards had been marked." Remembering Tyler's proud boasts of the superiority of cool-headed men, which he professed to be, I mentioned his remarks to Seward with a smile at his being outwitted. " Poor fellow !" said Seward, " he seemed, jn truth, to be more vexed at his defeat than his loss. He has a splendid intellect, and is a monarch in theory, but has not enapgh alloy in his nature to circulate to advantage among *len. Though deeply read in books, he is green in the world's ways. He behaved so well, however, under bid nlisfortune, though ill with a cold, that I quite love him. He told me he knew you, and that, you were a person of fine understanding." " That observation certainly shows judgment." We talked a good while about the mysteries of these gaming plots, putting together the different facts whiff each was acquainted with : but the more we pondered the matter, the more mysterious it became, and we finally parted after attaining what my lord Coke would call " the exclusion of a conclusion." s VOL. I.	 • CHAPTER $C. For gentle girls the country's fit, The town was made for man.	Hr.alicz Feasting hereon, we will philosophise. THE summer was over and the town was again full. [ went constantly into society, and no man can do that long without leaving the form, if not the character of his feelings changed. The maxim which tells us that man an never alter his character, is practically rather a quibble than a truth ; for though, perhaps, and I speak doubt-Fully even of this, every one of strongly defined qualities in youth, may be seen to exhibit on striking occasions in ife,.these peculiarities, and may be found at the close of pis career to possess inherently the same dispositions which marked his boyhood; yet the influence of these ininations may be so long suspended by the power of cirmmstances, or so often interrupted by the power of pas-don, that in view of the brevity of man's existence, the lotion may probably be deemed false in theory, and in view of the results in action, may certainly be pronounced meless in practice. My sentiments and my estimdtion if things became greatly modified. I lost the morbid and ielf-centered view which I had formerly taken of the world. My passions became healthy, and cleared of the blind and dazzling fervour that once made every hope a !ertainty and every doubt despair. I learned to know ;hat there were thousands of men in the world of like missions with myself, and that I was not alone among ny fellows in the nature of my endowments and my feelngs,--a simple truth, but one which solitude can never each us; for, whatever may be the wisdom. of the cloiser, the truths which concern man as he is, are not among is learning; for the relations of man to himself and the •	Snr.u.sT. world, it teaches but by halves, and the relations of man to his fellows it teaches not at all. Extensive and familiar usage in society is as necessary to complete one's psychological education as one's social. The metaphysical and moral systems of those bookmen who have gone from the college to the„hermitage, aro necessarily scarcely more true than a description of the ocean would be by one who had only seen it in calm weather. But it is the misfortune of the broken state of man that every thing is ruptured and detached; the experiments are in one place, and the results stated in another, one who has not seen the premise makes the conclusion, and causes and consequences lie in different hands. What a magnificent creature would be one man made out of all men ! little less than God : if the partial knowledge of one could be added to that of another, the suggestion of one brought to enlighten the learned doubts of another, if ope could reason on what another has felt and seen, and all the trials, conjectures, observations and surmises of all men brought to one focus, what a world-lightening star that focus would be! Light is combination, and so is truth. A few weeks after the conversation alluded to in the last chapter, I had accepted an invitation to dine with a gentleman Wile held among his equals meridian distinetion in that meridian art. Mr. Benton was one who had meditated with that earnest and chastised devotion which so great and elevated a subject demands, on the best mode of dining ; and it is paying but a merited compliment to the genius and study of this good man, to declare that he understood the subject better, and practised it with more success than any person I have ever met with. At various times I have been favoured with his views upon this interesting subject; for, though not obtrubive in his proselytism as most discoverers 'are, Mr. Benton was always glad when an opportunity occurred of disseminating correct notions on this important topic, and he had none of that selfishness which might impel him to conceal from mankind what is necessarily never alien ,to humanity. klut that timidity which is the fatal Cleopatra of genius, that proud resilience from, the homage of the vulgar, which makes greatness splendid and impractrett- . ble, kept him always from appearing before the public. "He died and made no sign ;" and the sauntering traveller as he steps carelessly over his modest grave, little knows that he treads above the remains of one whose genius the shade of Lucullus might venerate, and before whose labours the star of Orleans might dim its glories. When I have sometimes expressed to him the sense which I entertained of his valuable researches, and the hope which I cherished that he would pot suffer his discoveries to perish with him, " I confess that I have sometimes thought," he would reply, " that what you are pleased to call my discoveries are not altogether Without value, nor without interest ; as indeed nothing can be that regards a science which, to say the least of it, is indispensable. My regard for the welfare and melioration of my fellow-creatures, has sometimes impelled me to wish that an easy and safe method presented itself of conveying to the world at large, some suggestions which the kindness of my friends has induced me to fancy not entirely valueless, and to perform that duty which every Dne owes to his race, by handing down to posterity what might be a • possession for everlasting' of culinary metaphysics. I have sometimes thought of publication, and indeed, I have employed some occasional hours in a few past years in the composition of a small volume on the subject of cookery; but independently on the reluctahce which I feel to intrude upon the grave world a book which must necessarily be ungraceful in style, and insufficiently supplied with learning,—which, at least, from my want of familiarity with the pen, would lack that melody cof words and. harmony of sentences, that Ciceronian charm of aptly balanced language, which would be reiuieed in treating of this, the first and most finished of the fine arts,—independently on this personal objection, which my vanity will not attempt to deem slight, there is s greater one inherent in the attempt itself; I mean the ombat which in its tender veal-like infancy it must sustain with those butchering critics and reviewers who ever stand at the gate of knowledge, pen (knife) in hand ; or these gentlemen.rudely; gracelessly, and unreasonably Vpugning and running counter to the precept of the im- mortal Louis Eustache Ude, to whom be honour, long life, and the gratitude of grateful men !" " Amen, and amen !" cried L " Opposing, I say, that precept of His, which forbids us to slay a calf in its tender youth, but to sheathe the knife till his beef-hood shall be attained; they rush savagely upon a scarce-fledged writer, and kill, serve him up with a garni of sauce, before he has grown robust by age. Whether it be, as Goethe conjectured, that by some personal misconstruction of mind; by a peculiar obliquity in their moral constitution ; by the frame of their mental powers ; by the very condition of their existence—these people are prevented from telling the truth, certain it is that such a thing as a generous and genial criticism is as rare as half-boiled beef. To me, much reflecting upon these matters, it has appeared that the evil arises from the unfortunate position of these anti-authors: for authors •	and professional critics hold much the same relation to one another that England does to France ; a relation, according to Mr. Fox, of national enmity. They have adapted the lying maxim, that ridicule is the test of truth, where In fact, it is the greatest enemy truth has ever had ; being much such a test as proving a sword upon a stone, trying a liquid by evaporation, or searching for vitality with a scalpel ; whatever may be the result, the object examined is destroyed for ever. They have let in the laughers into the gardens of Philosophy ; the baying hounds into the still coverts of the ruminating stag. And they are sure to be supported by the populace, for the poulace loves to demolish ; I never heard of a mob as- sembled to construct. The more I consider this affair of laughing, the more absurd and unworthy it appears to me.. But the reviewers can do nothing else, being like those tormented spirits, the ghosts of scoffers, described in an ancient legend, who are condemned to expiate their sins by grinning painfully through all eternity. Similar is the critic's destiny ; for, humanity and the fresh feelings of unshackled sympathy being dead within them, they become even as dead men, and like skeletons deriding humanity ; and they thrust forward their ever- * grinning visages into the Egyptian feast of literature, and humble their author by the claim of fraternity." Unfortunately, Mr. Benton could not look with such tranquil philosophy on these things, as Sterne* did, and the world lost for ever the benefit of his meditations. His best and most honourable " works," however, were such as could not well be communicated to the world, in sub. stance, nor could the world give them a tribute meet for their desert. One of these I was about to allude to, when interrupted by this digression. I arrived at the house before any of the company were assembled. Soon after I had reached the drawing-room, a venerable but most cheerful-looking man, whom I knew at once to be an ecclesiastic, entered, and with an uncertain step, something between a trip and a totter, made his way to the host and bowed with entire simplicity, but with the air of a man perfectly accustomed to the great world. He was short in stature and his feet were the smallest I ever saw ; his person was firm, and face un- wrinkled, although to judge by his total baldness, " his eightieth year was nigh." His figure was a good deal bent, but apparently more from study than age; and his head generally rested on his breast, but was very frequently thrown up with a mild impatience, or forward with a kind of restless nod. He had a habit of drawing in the air between his teeth every few moments with a curious noise; an action which he incessantly displayed when another was speaking, together with many other of the innumerable tricks of a nervous man. Mr. Benton named him to me as Dr. Gauden. " Sir," growled the doctor, with great urbanity, mumbling and biting his words as he spoke, " I'm very happy to make your acquaintance. I kne,w your grandfather very well, very well, indeed ; poor man," throwing up • his head and muttering almost to himself, " oh ! ah ! so it is! dead and gone !" then turning his back on me and limping off to a chair, he continued soliloquising with an * " As we rode along the valley," says Sterne in one of his letters from France, " we saw a herd of asses on the top of one of the mountains. How they viewed and reviewed us !" alternate nod and toss of the head : " ah ! as Varro says, vetustas non pauca depravat, multa tollit. Quern puerum vidisti formosum nunc vides deformem senectu. Tertium seculum. non vidit eum horninum, quern vidit primum.'" Dr. Gauden had been educated for the Catholic priesthood at one of the old colleges of France, which have formed for many years the noble nursing-mothers of the Romish clergy, of protestant countries. There he had been thoroughly imbued with ancient lore, and taught to know the ancient writers and the fathers as familiarly as the divines and classics of his native tongue. When, in later years, he departed from the church of his fathers, he took with him all the tastes and habits which he had formed in its bosom ; and though becoming an active Protestant clergyman, " the scent of the cloister had clung to him still." Testa recens Quo semel est imbuta, diu servabit odorem. He lived entirely among the old, illustrious authors ; for modern books, he said, only repeated one another. He fed, his mind upon the golden pages of Tertullian and Chrysostom, of Cicero and Plato, for it was the aliment to which it had been accustomed. His memory was " rich with the spoils of time ;" and his conversation abounded with choice fragments of Pagan and Christian eloquence. His quotations had nothing of pedantic in their frequency, but seemed to be the natural overflowing of a full mind. If he wove into his common discourse, a " thread or two drawn from the coat of an apostle," or gave his hearers " a smack of Augustin or a sprig of Basil," all knew that the display was not an exhibition of vanity : ignorance was not alarmed, and taste was not offended. A few minutes after, Mr. Rolle entered the room ; a man of singularly feeble and delicate frame, and a countenance full of feeling and poetry ; a vague, uncertain smile played constantly about his mouth indicating one whose thoughts mostly floated in some inner sphere of sentiment and rarely appreciated the reality of the real things around him ; an impression which was assisted by the dreamy stare of his large, moist, gray eye. He en- V 'X	ID I lb NI LIM I • tered the room in an amusing state of excitement, and trembling with emotion, addressed his host in broken and almost tearful accents. " My dear Mr. Benton, could not you have dinner postponed for a little while until I recover my composure! You see how excessively I am excited : I cannot appear at the table with any propriety."	• •	" Do not concern yourself about that, my dear sir," said Mr. Benton. " The company consists of your own particulals friends, and I am sure that they will excuse any disorder in your manner." " Oh !" replied the other, " it is not for them that I care; it is for myself How can I enjoy my dinner in such a state of embarrassment How can I come with agitated nerves and an excited mind to a task which above all others requires the conscience pure, the easy mind,'—a reason undisturbed by passion, senses cool, critical and keen in nice detection,—a body and a spirit perfectly at rest, like the stone beneath the &gigs of -wisdom'? Could'nt you put off your dinner till to-mor- Arow ! I am sure these gentlemen would as leave come to-morrow." " My - dear friend," said Benton, laughing heartily, while Rolle stood the picture of humorous perplexity, •' you shall dine with me both to-day and to-morrow ; and to secure you the degree of coolness necessary to the free and full exercise of your unrivalled powers of analysis, you shall be brought 'here to-morrow, like a salmon, in an ice-basket. Meanwhile, as a dinner is not like a debate, a matter which ray be adjourned, I hope that if you sit down in that corner and unbutton your wrist-bands, and suffer me to fan you gently you may at length be recovered into a tolerable condition for dining. But what has been the cause of this terrible disturbance ? Have you been waylaid? Have you been fired at 'I Have you been robbed '?" "'Worse, worse !" replied the other. " Sit down and I will tell you about it: but do not look so strongly at me, for it excites me more ; look naturally. The event which has so much discomposed me, is this : I was coming here when I met, two corners off, a servant-boy, with two magnificent rock-fishes—a rarity in these times, more golden than gold. They were fishes like those described in Athenmus, dlMavoaroiiti loidt	xai iiaos Ilipotat, 'in shape and nature like the immortal gods.' The wretch, to whose care some malignant demon had entrusted these spoils of Neptune, instead of carrying them with cautious..solemnity, as the charge demanded, went swinging them both in one hand, with utter carelessness and bruising thn by striking them against one another. Instantly I perceived this barbarous and atrocious conduct, I rushed across the street, and seizing the boy, demanded to know by what infatuation he was possessed to treat those fishes in such a manner. He replied, insolently, that the fishes were his master's, .and that if the latter knew how he carried them he would have no objection. Knowing well that a man may, like a corporeal hereditament, lie in livery, I told him that I should go with him to his master and see whether he allowed such animals to be destroyed in that manner, and that if he did not resent it, I shottlidpunish him myself for such a public outrage. Her the boy fled, leaving me alone with the precious Amp upon examining them I found one of them utterly ruined by the bruises it had got. Hine ilia laehrynue: and judge thou if there be not cause. The other, I thank God; is safe." " And where is it " cried Benton, with some curiosity. " In my hat in the entry," replied Rolle, in a whisper. " Come and dine with me alone to-morrow at ten, and we will eat it." This conversation, which. gave me a glimpse of that most curious of all characters, a sentimental gourmand, was interrupted by the entrance of a gentleman of Herculean proportions, oddly habited in a scarlet hunting-jacket, loose pantaloons, and a coloured neckcloth loosely tied about his neck. His face had a fine, frank, but firm egression ; and his large keen eye denoted high intelligERce. His manners were natural and unrestrained—the behaviour of a man who lived, not against, but above, the usage of the world ; and was directed to such conduct by his strong love of perfect freedom, and supported in it by the calm consciousness of powers and a reputation which would protect him against remark. Such a style of address adopted by a man of fresh and rich intellect and tempered by native delicacy and refined taste, renders intercourse delightful. It is a high relief to escape from the wearisome mistrust and the unworthy egotism of artificial manners, and from the confinement of small talk which good breeding imposes, because all may not be capable of large talk: you have the keen pleasure of freely coping a generous intellect, together with the gentle gratification of being, as habitual vanity suggests, in one respect above your companion. There was an odd mixture of rudeness and refinement in the character of Mr. Wilkins: he was at once a scholar and a boxer, a poet and a good fellow. After the entrance of two or three other persons dinner was announced. " What is the reason," said Mr. Wilkins, as the tureens were taken off, " that we always find soup served before par meats	Vermicelli is at best a tasteless affair, and 'only takes away that appetite which should be reserved for worthier viands." " Sir," replied Mr. Benton, " you have hit upon the very reason. Soup is provided for the purpose of removing that 'keen animal appetite whose violence disturbs the mind in the nice perception of the harmony of tastes. Criticism is feeling; and it is too delicate to distinguish finely when the senses are craving the strong. physical gratification which nature and habit have made.necessary to them. There are two distinct pleasures in eating: the first consists in simply appeasing the appetite,—the second in calmly exercising the sense of taste. The latter is the natural delight springing from the action of one of the physical sources of enjoyment ; the former is the independent pleasure caused by supplying or removing a painful want, on the general principle That every want which stimulates the breast Becomes a source of pleasure when redrest. You are a snuff-taker, Mr. Wilkins, and you know that every pinch of snuff gives you two distinct delights,. that of pleasing the smell, and that of gratifying an animal want which custom has created. You as a sportsman also know how inconsistent is the exercise of taste with strong appetite ; for at the end of a day's hunt you find cold beef as agreeable as terrapins, and perhaps more so; because the more delicate pleasure is absorbed in the stronger, and what most gratifies the latter is most acceptable. As but one of these pleasures is worthy of a sentient being, we provide soups to extinguish the other ; that is, we destroy hunger to create taste." " That is reasonable enough," said Rolle; " but surely no man of sense ever allows himself to get hungry. From the first moment that I could reflect justly on the end and aim' of human existence, I do not think that I have ever been hungry." " It is curious, by the way, to observe," continued Benton, " that the wise ancients had the same custom. Their supper, which corresponds to our dinner, was preceded by an ante-ccenum, which consisted chiefly of wine thickened with honey. The commentators say that this was to quicken the appetite ; but honeyed wine must certainly have had an opposite effect." " The succession of dishes," said Rolle, " is a subject worthy of the most profound consideration. I regard the architecture of an entertainment as one of the highest of the fine arts. When, at the close of a well-cooked and well-arranged dinner,—such a dinner as Mr. Benton would choose to give, and I would choose to eat,—I review the whole, it rises upon my mind like a symphony of Beethoven's,—a succession of elements harmoniously combined and exquisitely diversified. The beaux arts, by-the-by, are vastly more numerous than is commonly suspected. Dancing is unquestionably one of them and eating is another. The latter is a science, which, as Sieyes said of politics. je crois avoir achevee : I have brought it to perfection. But there is another of the senses to which there is no corresponding fine art ; for while the hearing has music, and the sight has architecture, the objects which address the smell have never been reduced to a system. I have been engaged in investigating the matter esthetically, and have nearly succeeded in constructing • a gamut Of odours, and I hope soon to present to my- frit/ids an overture of flowers. But let us postpone this discussion till dinner is over." " The notion of Mr. Rolle is true," said Wilkins. " The great principle of the universe, moral and physical, is relation ; and the sole business of the mind,—the only thing about which it can possibly employ itseK—the primary point at which its operation begins, and the terminating bound at which it stops,—the first step it takes from the domains of the sensible, and the last progress it achieves in the regions of the intellectual,—is the perception of relation. The soul, says Plato, is a harmony ; and by the soul be means that mass of organised thought and feeling which belongs to, and is our moral existence; and by harmony he means just relation ; these hoarded perceptions of just relation throughout all things, make the soul. There is a mental and a physical perception of relations ; that is, a perception by the mind and by the senses. The former gives rise to sciences and the latter to fine arts. The fine arts therefore may be defined the evolution of harmony in the objects of the senses. Metaphysically they are but one; physically they are indefinite in number. Wherever there is a harmony in sound, motion, size, form, smell, taste or touch, there, there• is room for a fine art. This notion which I but obscurely hint at now, gives rise to a new metaphysical system. I am a materialist, and regard thinking as one of the fine arts. I shall some day or other publish a quarto volume on the subject, with an appendix of maps." " I hope," said Dr. Garden, "the chapter on the esthetics of eating will be-illustrated by plates." " It is curious to observe," continued Wilkins, " how often poets and others, writing not from a priori reasoning, but from the natural instinct of impression, have alluded to harmony in matters of form. The word music which they employ denotes mere harmony ; and both of these words have been restricted to or derived from matters of sound, probably because the mind being greatly under the tyranny of vision, deemed the relation of what was perceived by another sense, more abstrdct and unmaterial than the perceptions of the sight, and so gave to that science or drew from it the generic name of the whole operation. Sir Thomas Browne says, There is a music even in beauty, and the silent note which Cupid strikes, far sweeter than the sound of an instrument.' Byron,	The Bride of Abydos,' speaks of the mind, the music, breathing from the face.' Milton says, The hand sang with the voice, and this the argument.' An old reporter dwells with delight on the music of a well-written act of parliament.' From a feeling of the same sort the Greeks gave to coloured stones arranged in varied order the name of mousaic,' which modern speech has corrupted into mosaic.' When the old philosopher spoke of the music of the spheres, he meant the harmony of form and motion, and had no allusion whatever to sound : neither had Wordsworth when he heard the still, sad music of humanity, nor harsh, nor grating,' —he was referring only to the melody of virtuous conduct in the midst of suffering. Bacon, in a similar spirit, speaks of the breath of flowers' coming and going in the air, like the warbling of music.'—There is another consideration connected with this which affords scope for talent. If these arts are the relations of homogeneous elements, mathematics, which is the science of pure and abstract relation, is certainly capable of being applied to them. There can be no question that algebra or the calculus possess within themselves the capacity of expressing composite sounds and solid forms, and all other matters, as well as numerical quantities and linear shapes. I do not yet despair of seeing the formula of a temple or an overture. Indeed I am persuaded that even thought is reducible to definite primary elements, and that an equation might be constructed which should express all the possible combinations of these elements, and so contain all that man can think on all subjects. No human head perhaps could do it, and no human sheet of paper contain the equation ; but still theoretically the thing is possible." During the delivery of this harangue, Mr. Rolle had been diligently engaged in " unlocking the hidden soul" of flavour from a cancre commun, and I had overheard him ejaculating audibly, " Lord ! how good !"-" Oh ! VOL. I.	 ovt- delicious !" " —oh Lord, —oh Lord ;" and ocisionalfy exclaiming fretfully, " I wish that Wilkins could hold his tongue ; how can a man eat when there I so much talking V' " Besides this," continued Mr. Wilkins, resuming his rgument,— Mr. Rolle rose upon his fret : " Mr. Wilkins, it is my uty to inform you, that unless you cease making a noise shall leave the room ; yes, sir, unless your discourses re deferred I shall dine in the entry, with my plate on a hair. It is impossible that, amid the distraction and mend harassment which listening and thinking occasions, ny man should bring to the dishes that calmness of soul nd concentration of mind which such a profession as Elting demands." " Mr. Rolle," said Wilkins, " will you allow me the onour of a glass of wine with you r " With great pleasure, Mr. Wilkins," said Rolle, retpsing into his chair. The ancients, Mr. Rolle," resumed Wilkins, "thought well that something should amuse the mind during the ioments of dining, so that the senses Might be at liberty ) gambol in delight at their own sweet will.' They herefore provided music at their entertainments, to abDrb the spiritual part of man. Talking, if you would ilk, might serve the same purpose. Is not my authority orrect, Dr. Gauden " " But Euripides," growled the doctor, " objects to music t feasts, as being a superfcetation of enjoyment, and irects the song to be reserved for dolorous occasions. A concert of music in a banquet of wine,' says the auhor of Ecclesiasticus, is as a signet of carbuncle' set fn old.' In general, I think, the custom has prevailed mong barbarous, rather than cultivated nations. Indeed, lam Johnson says the Greeks were barbarians : Sed Imre de hoc." " The Greek mind," said Rolle, " was essentially encylopmdic ; it craved totality ; its perpetual strife was to mbrace all ; it mistook universality for perfection, and ought not the all-complete so much as the naught-defecive. This glorious error led them to paint their temples, to colour their statues, to dance as well as sing their odes, and to bring musicians into the dining-room. They desiderated all that the genius could do in creation, rather than all that the taste would admire in contemplation ; and in pursuit of the _might be sometimes missed the ought to be,—not always acting on that fine critical principle of Jack Birkenhead's,' which Bishop Sprat has preserved, that a great wit's great work is to refuse.' The modern capacity may have contracted, but certain it is that no man, as men now are, can fully taste one kind of pleasure while another is at hand to distract the perception. Architecture is the beauty of form; if colouring is superadded, it will defeat the impression of the former just in proportion to its excellence. When you are conversing and I am eating, two high delights are presented at once, and one injures the enjoyment of the other. Conscious that I must lose something, that loss fills me with regret, and that regret unfits me for eliciting gratification. Besides you forget, most eloquent Wilkins, that as eating is in good part a mental enjoyment, listening to you more directly conflicts with a diner's duty, by withdrawing the necessary instruments of his profession. The philosopher should imitate the bee, which sucks honey from the dust as well as from the flower ; from the Pythagorean school then, though we ought not to learn to confine our food to beans, we ought at least to learn silence. What opinion, Dr. Gauden, does your classical mind form upon the subject I Is conversation an advantage in dining, or not ?" " Why. I think of it, what Cicero has said of eloquence in a philosopher," replied the other: " Si afferatur, non repudianda ; si absit, non magnopere desideranda.' But the same Cicero says somewhere, that the Roman feasts were called convivial banquets, because the conversation and society constituted their chief pleasure, and that the Greeks gave the ceremony only such names as contemplated eating and drinking.". " Did they ?" said Rolle ; " Sage dogs !	forgive them the music. Ay ! they were right ; the knife talking with the meat is conversation enough, and there is no society like the society of the viands. Your Greek after all is your only true philosopher: honour, and long life to the Greeks ! They called dinner by a word which signifies the best !' Judicious philologists !" " Still it must be confessed," said D-r. Gauden, "that the Romans sometimes did these things very handsomely. They rarely gave a shabby% dinner. It showed that there was a very just appreciation of the case, when a single mullet sold for dollars, and another for , and fishponds like those of Hirtius and Lucullus commanded , dollars." " 'He ancients," said Rolle, " sought to render eating more of a mental delight than we can afford to do, and introduced refinements unknown to us. They served at their table viands whose chief delicacy lay in their intellectual elegance and poetical beauty. A dinner given by Vitelkus to his brother, had, says Suetonius, portions of seven thousand most choice birds in one dish, and of two thousand equally choice fishes in another. There stood in the centre a dish, called, from its enormous size, Minerva's buckler ; and of what composed, think ye? of the livers of scarf, the brains of pheasants and peacocks, the tongues of parrots, and the bellies of lamprey eels, brought from Carpathia and the remotest parts of Spain in ships of war sent out expressly for the purpose. Claudian and Statius inveigh against this extravagance ; but their wisdom had shown itself more rich, if, when the feast was set before them, they had, like Jacques, given Heaven thanks and made no boast of it ; but these poets ate raffish fellows. I know nothing more ridiculous than the sight of little fat-paunched Flaccus condemning the pleasures of the table, and exhorting to temperance and philosophic sobriety. Another dyspeptic satirist of the times slanders the emperor, because he assembled the senate to discuss the best manner of boiling a turbot ; and what more important business could they have had, I should like to know It would be as well if the topics of senatorial debate were always as honourable, or the counsel of senators always as useful. But satire is a low-born trade, and the professors of it are base-minded growlers; they go about snuffing, smelling, and whining in every direction, and wherever they find an open door, puppy-like, in they go. Juvenal was very little of a gentleman. How different was Virgil ! the most thorough-bred man of antiquity ! His mind and thoughts had a pearly purity and refinement ; in our days he would have been a parish priest, and have died of bronchitis." " Aristotle," said Dr. Gauden, " wrote a code of laws for the table, and it is recorded that he was particularly fond of fish. The most remarkable glutton of Greece appears to have been Philoxenus of Cythera, who never dined out without carrying his own castors, and being attended by several of his own pages to wait upon him. He prayed for the neck of a crane that he might prolong the sensation of taste. It is to be hoped that Pluto has changed him into a boa-constrictor." " I will venture to say," said Rolle, "that there has never been a man of genius who has not been a lover of good eating; naturally, I mean ; for many have been abstinent from piety or principle, as Ximenes and Warburton. Look with what gust old Homer describes the carousals of his gods. Duly as the day, they met in council ; and after squabbling all the morning, they all trot off together down to Jupiter's brazen-floored palace to eat and drink, which was probably the only point on which they ever cordially agreed. Scott, too, has scarcely a novel without a good trencher-man in it; and they are dealt with so considerately ; there is such a pleasant humorousness thrown over the exploits of Athelstan and Dalgetty, that you see very plainly it was a fellow-feeling' made him so wondrous kind.' Whenever his heroes stop for the night, the first thing that concerns him is to feed them." " Another maxim may be safely laid down," said Mr. Benton, " that it requires a certain degree of virtue to dine well,—at least, that bad men are never devoted to the table. I hold Lafontaine's principle, that to get along well in the world, one must have a good stomach and a bad heart,' to be a contradiction in itself; the two things areJnconsistent. A bad heart implies a callousness of susceptibility of all sorts, and that is destructive of plea, sure from eating. Johnson, who was the relentless enemy of cant, set this matter on a just footing; some peo- . ple,' said he profess not to care for their stomachs : for my part, I -attend particularly to mine ; and look upon it that the man who does not care fo"r his omach, will not care for matters more important.' That noble thinker had a mind great enough to perceive the value of little things. Caesar showed his sagacity when he chose to have fat and sleek men about him, and distrusted lean ones. The master-passions of ambition and hate, swallow up all minor likings. Some one offered Wilks a pinch of snuff; Thank you!' said the radical, I have no small vices.' It was taken notice of at Rome, that those who neglected regularity of attendance at the dinner-party hour (six o'clock in that city) were loose in their general conduct, and profligate in all their manners. Plutarch tells a story of bne Polycharmus who, when accused of variouts vices, solemnly appealed to the people to know whether he, had ever vitiated the rules of the table, or been deficient in the devotion that was due to a supper. The sage Athenians perceived in this, so just a sense of propriety, and such an habitual rectitude of principle, that they acquitted the fellow by acclamation." " Yet there are some instances on record," said Wilkins, " which show that deep depravity may be united with a fine Apician taste. A gehtleman who had a plum-tree, on which two plums were just perfectly ripe, invited Darteneuf, the great epicure of the last century, half of whose name lives immortal in the verse of Pope, to dine with him, intending that each of them should, after the dessert, pluck one of the plums from the tree, that they might not be injured by being carried to the parlour. Darteneuf, as the dinner was waxing to a close, begged to be excused for a moment, left the room, went secretly into the garden and plucked, and ate both the plums ! A baser act of villany, a darker, or more remorseless want of feeling, was never exhibited. The man who could do such an act, would fatten his mushrooms with the blood. of his brother." " Yet, my good Wilkins, the story is bipennis, and points both ways," said Rolle. " The man who invited any one to share such a Pomonan banquet must have had a heart•to which Howard's was Pharaonic." " The circumstance that mert dine in company and not alone," said; Mr. Benton, " is proof of the moral excellence of the occupationi for the virtuesere all social ; the vices all solitary." " To settle the precise number," said Rolle " at which the pleasures of eating, and of enjoying society, are in aptest propertion, and neither predominates unduly; has always been a difficult problem in eptcureanism. Our companies- are generally too Jorge. Among the Greeks and Romaas, the usual orthodox number was between four and eleven. Ausonius says seten is the best, including the master : if there be more, he remarks, punningly, it ceases to be convivium and becomes convicium. A supper of Augustus to twelve was so unusual, as to have been deemed worthy of commemoration." " Varro," remarked Dr. Gauden, " seems to have been the first who gave the rule of not more than tie muses, nor less than the graces." " Cardinal De Retz declares," .said Wilkins, " that whenever a company amounts to one hundred, it is a mob, and few men have had more acquaintance with mobs, or have written their natural history better, than Cardinal De Retz. But this limit, if the true one, applies only to -politics ; for the standard varies with the intention and purpose of the assembly, and a far smaller number constitutes a literary mob than is required for a political one. I take this to be the just criterion in the case ; that whenever the spirit of individuality passes out of the persons assembled, and some aggregate spirit, whether patriotic, destructive, or panic whether the genius loci, or the afflatus of occasion enters into them ; whenever private sympathy ceases and collective impression begins, so that men are influenced not peronatim, but gregatirn, not by peculiar, but by general appeals ; whenever, in public companies, men harangue and not debate, and in private ones, discourse and not converse ; in a word, whenever externality prevails over personality ; at that point the assembly becomes a mob according to its kind and sort. As every gentleman has a hatred of mobs, this consideration, rather than any numeral principle, should regulate the amount of the persons he calls together to dine. I should consider twelve educated and spirited men at a dinner-table a decided mob ; while to make a rebellious mob in a garrisoned city several hundreds might be requisite; such a number at all events as would allow collective enthusiasm to master personal fear. Under the empire three was pronounced a mob ; which may be vindicated on Tertullian's authority, ubi tres, ecclesia est.' I think it will bear an argument whether a single individual may not in some circumstances be a mob : I should be strongly inclined to maintain that George Sandt when he murdered Kotzebue, the man wlio mutilated Andre's tomb in Westminster Abbey, and most of the assailants of royal personages, are not to be considered as individuals, but as mobs sole." •	" Benton," said Rolle, " why the devil do you suffer your cook .to put mustard in the macaroni ? cooked me.; tard'is horrible." " Why" replied the other, " my cook has a great many sorts of ability, and among the rest a good deal of irritability ; and if I were to act upon the democratic maxim and assume the right of instruction,' I fear he would not obey' but resign.' But there is so little of the obnoxious article, that I am surprised that you perceive it." " Perceive it? If it were inserted in Homceopathic doses I should perceive it. But why don't you turn such a man out of the house ? I wouldn't retain such a man in my service a moment. How old is he ?" " Thirty-two." " Too young, tod young. His aspirations are yet too tumultuous, and his energies too undisciplined. He cannot have attained that splendid repose of passion amid the ardour of vigorous power, whith is demanded by nature for the ruling of an empire end the cooking of a dinner." Ude fixes at thirty the period of life at which .a man may be pronounced a perfect cook. That seems to be the climacteric of the intellect." " Sir, you are to take a distinction. There are two climacterics of the intellect, one between twenty-six and thirty, the other at forty ; the period of the first is the zenith of energy ; the second, of ability. For any enter- prise requiring hardy zeal and intrepidity ; for the resolute execution of a daring project ; for all that demands nerve and force ; the powers of man are in their perfec- tion at about twenty-seven or nine. Alexander, Charles the Twelfth, and Lord Byron who wrote his poems in the same spirit that the others fought their battles, performed at this age their finest achievements, and all of them coincided in dying at thirty-six. Shakspeare, the all-knowing, has observed this psychological truth : lago tells us when he commences his diabolics ' I have looked upon the world for four times seven years.' On the other hand, no man can be prepared fbr the performance of a truly great and elevated work'; one enacting the full develope- ment and exercised freedom of every mental faculty, and the long-trained and dependible strength of every power, before the age of forty. At that age Wieland fixed the time when a man is best fitted for a high literary work, and sat down to the composition of Oberon. -At that age, which Dryden calls the full summer tropic of his genity' Virgil wrote his best work. After that age Burgh, who had surveyed mankind with accuracy, forbade any one to enter on any neW undertaking, perceiving that that was the tem of execution, not enterprise. I should therefore conclude that while an artiste of thirty-two is admirably fitted for grand and gigantic experiments in his profession, he is yet unsuited for that last and noblest effort of human genius ; that loftiest exhibition of serene might ; that most worthy task of Olympian powers ; the cooking of a dinner." " We are told in the Acts of the Apostles, that Moses was full forty years old when he began his mission ; Mahomet was thirty-nine. Forty, also, was the consular age among the Romans." Leaving this conversation to proceed as it pleased, I turned to Dr. Gauden, who was sitting on the other side of me, and had fallen into' a kind of revery. There was a fine landscape by Gouldsborough hanging on the opposite wall, in front of him, at which he was looking intently, and muttering to himself some verses of Flaminius, with the usual intermixture of fretful nods. "Umbra frigidulte ! arbprum susurrit Antra macula ! discolore picta Tenns gramine fontium loquaces Lymplue ! garrula ayes I arnica Musis Otia !—O mihi si volare vestrum In sinum superi annuant benigni That must be when I come back." "It is to be regretted, I think, Doctor," said I, falling in with the current of his thoughts, " that the Latin writings of the Italian scholars who clustered about the morning light of modern letters, are not more known and studied than they are. There is some exquisite poetry among them." " Beautiful, sir, beautiful. In descriptions of nature they are unrivalled. The history of the literature which Le Clerc happily calls demi-ancient, remains to be written. Rosco's books are beneath contempt." " I am glad to hear you say so, for I have always held the opinion that they were infinitely overrated. I never could get through them : they would not take hold of me." " His popularity," replied the Doctor, " illustrates a sagacious remark of Horace Walpole ; -a fine thinker, now too much neglected ; that grace will save any book, and without it none can live long. The gracefulness of his style and the elegance of his manner have given him an acceptance with the general,' who hate to think and are careless of knowing. But be is alwayi superficial and often mistaken ; he says more in a sentence than he could stand by in a volume. He sketches, but does not portray, and guesses where he ought to investigate ; it effieure lorsqu'il devrait percer' His taste was delicate rather than just : and his mind, though polished, was feeble and one-sided. He could argue agreeably, but could not judge accurately. He lacked that strong grasp of mind, that stern watchfulness against prejudice, and that self-denying disinterestedness of sentiment, which are essential in exploring the mines of history." " Among the many services," said I, " which Pope rendered to literature, his edition of some of these poets should not be forgotten ; if it showed no learning, it proved at least his taste,' and his interest in letters. I have sometimes regretted that Johnson did not prosecuta his intention of editing Politian." " No doubt he would have done it well ; he edited Browne's Morals' with consummate ability. But to tell you the truth, Politian is no favourite of mine. His prose is certainly elaborately classical ; but his poetry is irreclaimably dull. His personal character is any thing but agreeable ; he was intensely and meanly selfish ; always cringing and begging. He was insatiable of favours and never seems to have had the least gratitude for them. The wife of Lorenzo, you know, turned him out of the house. It is odd that Mrs. Parr did the same thing to. that splendid brute, Porson. should have been glad if Johnson had edited Petrarch, or Vida, or had written a history of that age. That is a work which is yet to be done ; the men of that time are still doubtful in reputation; posterity has formed no definite conclusion about them. Such a man would have settled opinion once and for ever. Let theorists sneer as they may,'there is not a critical notion of Johnson's which the nation has not accepted. Brydges and Bowles have written their volumes, and Coleridge has lectured his worst, exhausting logic and his hearers; but not a decision in the lives of the Poets has been shaken : that book stands in the history of literature, like a rock in the ocean ; the waves and waters of opinion may beat around it and beat against it, but it stands, and as it stands, for ever shall stand on'" " I have sometimes speculated, Doctor, on the effect which he would have produced on English literature, if With the reputation which he had at his death, he had lived on till our own times. Modern poetry and fiction would have no existence. Byron, and Wordsworth, and Bulwer, would have been crushed like peascods. I suspect that the whole radical system with its liberty and utility, would have been scattered to the winds ; for his actual power was immense and his possible power scarcely calculable. For cogency of reason ; for simple ability to convince ; no man that ever existed may be compared with him. He was a wonderful great man." " Sir, his greatness cannot be overstated. Form the highest notion that you can have of powerful reasoning or of brilliant wit, and then turn to some of his political pamphlets, or to certain conversations which I could name in Boswell, and you will find that the reality excels your wish: His conversations are to my judgment even more wonderful than his writings. He might have said of Boswell what Mahomet said of Ali, I am the city of knowledge ; and he is my gate.' Boswell deserves to be remembered, for his appreciation of Johnson showed a fine spirit, and the meannesses he submitted to, were the sacrifice of dignity to wisdom. And he will be remembered with an immortal insignificance, for he is like the beccafica which the stork takes upon his back and carries to heights which its feeble wing could not attain. His powers were undoubtedly most respectable ; for I take it to be the, not so facile, business of a biographer, simply to give you a clear and satisfactory impression of the subject of his book, and this he has done ; you see Johnson as he lived ; in the rude grandeur of his noble nature : nihil hic elegans aut venustum, sed ingens et magnificum, et quod placet magnitudine suit et quidam specie immensitatis,' as Burnet says of a view from the shores of the Mediterranean." " Johnson's independence or defiance of the restraints of refined life," said I, " though it exposed him to cavil, was certainly of service to the freedom of his mind, for it enabled him to appreciate the world with stern and conscientious truth. Every gentleman, even the most strong-minded, is habitually under the influence of cant ; and when the judgment is once resigned to prescription and usage, the limits of the thraldom cannot easily be defined. Johnson stood alone; early a widower,—with no children ' and no relations near him,—an acknowledged exception to all society,—he was free from the faintest fetter of custom,- Custom, that result of the prejudices and passions of 'many, and the designs of a few, that ape of reason, who usurps her seat, exercises her power, and is obeyed by mankind in her stead.' He was thus enabled to look down upon the establishments of the world with an independence which few others could hope to attain, and Where he bore. testimony to their value and justice, hhi evidence had incalculable fbrce." " It is a pity," said Dr. Gauden, " that Parr and others who imitated the great moralist, should have copied the ' brute' part of him' so closely. You tee clearly that Johnson's rudeness was like the horns of the Fauns and Satyrs, a natural excrescence ; while Parr's, like those of Bacchus, was an ornament which he could remove. In his Salmoneus' wieldings of the thunderbolt, he gave too much of the thunder and too little of the bolt. He was a man of small stature ; still, when he 'summoned all the energies of his reason, and put forth the whole power of his mind,' he could do considerable.' His dedication of the Warburtonian's Tracts is the most splendid effort of elaborate malignity that the world has ever seen. But he had always the cramped movement of one acting a part, and was still farther dwarfed by acting a part too high for him. Johnson strode with the step of a giant ; Parr stalked like one accoutred in the seven-leagued boots of a dwarf. Parr built up his mind on a great model ; Johnson's mind grew up, and he swayed it as we sway the 'limbs of our body. Parr struggles to get up to his subject, as a clumsy swimmer to get upon the ice: Johnson has always conquered his topics, and holds them up with the air of a man going to grate a nutmeg. You find, too, about the latter that natural humour and honest bdnhommie which results from the self-composure incident to a thoroughly great mind. It may seem an odd fancy, but there is something in Falstaff which puts me in mind of Johnson." Warburton was more his fellow than any other eminent man of his country. But he differed in many qualities, and where he differed there he descended." " Warburton had logic rather than reason, and had more of mechanical intellect than moral power ; he was forcible rather than strong, and energetic rather than robust. He used the sling; Johnson, the mace. Johnson was like a man who, walking through a forest, meets a lion there and slays him : Warburton was like one who, happening to pass an amphitheatre as he is going through a city on important business, throws VOL. .	' •	r down his bundle NI The street and steps in among the beasts, from pure love of a broil : as mach praise must be given to the unostentatious manliness of the one as to the gladiatorial vehemence of the other. A great mind is stable by its very weight ; Warburton floated about like gossamer,—over men's heads and in their faces. No truly great mind ever tampered with error ; it has a strong love of truth,—an intellectual affection, • qui s'attache au vrai par une espece de sympathie,' as Fontenelle says, et sente le faux sans le discuter.' Notwithstanding the high and rich delight which the study of his works has afforded me,—for,- like Lelius in • The Arcadia,' he showed more skill in missing than others did in hitting,—yet my, own opinion of him is much what Voltaire has expressed about Charles of Sweden, homme unique plutot, que grand homme, admirable pluttot qui' a imiter.' Bentley, I think, had more of the great Chain's unminted wealth and sinewy vigour than any of these men : but the most Johnsonian mortal now alive, and out of sight the first man that wears calf-skin is Mr. Webster. He is a glorious creature. What a pity he is honest. Sir, we'll drink his health !" " With all my heart !" " Mr. Webster has the misfortune of being too great for his condition. There is in the American system no niche for such a statue. Such a man must be often disappointed, and die at last of a broken heart. Byron, in Manfred, has sketched the bitter degradation to which a noble mind must submit, that would mingle in the strife of public life." " Byron doubtless described what his own brief experiences in parliament had taught him. He seems to have been ambitious to bear a part in the politics of his coantry, and I suspect that to his failure in that enterprise is to be attributed much of the bitter hate and defiance which has been popularly attributed to domestic misfortunes. That his nature sympathised with the daring in action rather than the tender in sentiment, is manifest from his Alp, his Corsair, and indeed the whole circle of his heroes. There was rankling in his bosom some great and independent irritation;—the • stings of an ambition which OA llonours of poetry could not gratify. His expedition to Greece is indication of the same thing. But his character is, and will remain, a riddle. Dark and demoniac as were some of his qualities, he had many traits of a noble nature. His spirit was like the form of Eblis, in Beckford's marvel-boas creation ; sa figure &aft celle d'un jeune homme, dont les traits nobles et reguliers, semblaient avoir ete &stria par des vapeurs malignes. Le desespoir et l'orgeuil etaient peints dans ses rands yeux, et sa chevelure ondoyante tenait encore un peu de celle d'un ange de lumiere; . une main delicate, macs noircie par la foudre,	une voix plus douce qu'on aurait pti Is sup- poser, mats qui portait la noire melancholie dans l'ame' Vietue and vice contended for his soul, as Michael and Satan for the body of Moses." " Byron's poetry was never to my taste. He and his set are a kind of poetical Brahmins, teaching universal hatred and contempt towards all their fellow-creatures, and nourishing in themselves, as a religious duty, pride, selfishness and all uncharitableness. The impar is a charge which lies not against him, for his morals were as bad as his manners. I do not deny his talents but I have no sympathy with his subjects. He that striketh an instrument with skill,' says Hooker, may cause, notwithstanding, a very unpleasant sound, if the string whereon he striketh chance to be incapable of harmony.' As long as Spenser and Dryden survive I shall have little inclination to read a Newgate Calendar in verse, with a running accompaniment of Satanic applause, and an occasional episode of beautiful blasphemies." " But Byron," said I, "exhibits his heroes in colours so little agreeable, and paints the sufferings of remorse so darkly strong, that few, I imagine, would be seduced by the examples which he lays before them." " Sir, you mistake.	The fly,' says Herbert, I that feeds on dung is coloured thereby.' What we read be- comes a part of our mind, and, even if we condemn, the thought is there, and is working its evil. But in fact no one reads this poet without admiring him, for •
