the feeling's which be excites are so strong that the book Must be thrown down in disgust or devourod with transport. The natural element and protection of the virtues is calmness and sobriety ; all excitement endangers , innocence ; all familiarity with stimulating Feelings and engrossing interests, perils the heart's uprightness. Ignorance of vice is the safest virtue ; to shun temptation is the best deliverance from evil. The passions are like those demons with whom Afratidab sailed down the river Oxus; our safety consists in keeping them asleep; if they wake we are lost. Byron rouses a whirlwind of emotion in the mind ; and it is much if the moral integrity is not wrecked in the tempest. Wo to the wayward heart, That gladlier turns to eye the shuddering alert Of might, Than marks tie silent growth of grace and light :— Pleased in the cheerless tomb To linger, while the morning rays Blume Green lake, and cedar tuft, and spicy giada, Shaking their dewy tremor, now the storm is laid. Navagero, a noble Venitian, Omit a copy of Martial once every year : Childe Ilarold deserves .the one afultheoSIS. if the size of Lord Byron's form be measured by the shadow which it has cast over the laud, immense must be his mental. ProPortiona. He leas *me incalculable evil to the young, and more mischie I sus pect, to the world than any other single cause now in action. Moore may foster some of the details of vice, but Byron implants the master-sine—the demon-er of a countless brood,—Pride. At a period when the independent spirit of the times requires the bridle far more than the spur, he teaches his young disciples to follow their own headstrong will, and to defy all moral restraint,—thus feeding the most fatal Faerpent that lurks in the breast, and for which there is sustenance enough, in all conscience, supplied by the rebellious suggestions of. the native disposition. Lust selaeth us in youth,' says one whose thoughts are quaint and solid as the best yew-hedge,' ambition in mid-life, avarice in old age; but vanity and pride are the ,besetting sins that drive thb angels from our cradle, ride our first stick with us, mount our first horse with us, dream with us at night, wake with us in the morning, and never at any time abandon us. There is in the moral' straits a current from right to wrong, but no reflux from wrong to right ; fbr which destination we must hoist our sails aloft and ply our oars incessantly, or night and the tempest will overtake (Hi, and we shall shriek out in vain from the billows, and irrecoverably sink.' Believe me,' we need no incentives to the developement of this inherent evil of our nature. We are well assured that dark results are reaped from such a planting. The Bible says so, and the Bible is apt to be true about those things. For my part, as Gray says of Rousseau and his guild, can be miserable enough without their as*sistance,' and there I leave these heautoustimoroumenoi to those who can read them without being worsened." " At all events," said I, " if Byron must suffer the suspexerunt viri probi' of Pontanus's- epitaph, he is fully entitled to the`' amaverunt bone muse.' No man can read Manfred or Don Juan, and withhold from the poet all that his admirers claim for him on the score of genitils. Manfred's being caught by the Chamois Hunter as he attempted to throw himself over the precipice, and afterwards, when describing to the witch his unsuccessful efforts at self-destruction, mingling this reality with the fancies	a mind peopled with furies,' and saying that an all-pitiless demon held him back,—back by a single hair which would not break,' is worthy of the hand which drew King Lear." " The worst consequence of authors who are popular from some great peculiarity," said Wilkins, striking into the conversation. " is that they raise a host of followers, who wear the badge, but lack the blood which gives that badge a meaning. Bulwer in this manner is the literary offspring of Lord Byron, as the Mahometans believe thq, pig to have been generated from the excrement of the elephant. Clemens Alexandrinus tells us that Alexander the Great desired his sculptor to represent him with horns, willing to bear a deformity which it * efisociatedliOp wItb the gods. Buiwer mimics Byron's depravity in the loope of enjoying Byron's, notoriety, forgetting that an ass wears a cloven foot as well as, a fjevil." " Byron, to be sure, has a wilder endrgy and a. manner sweep," said Dr. Gaud n, " but the matter of their works is much the same.: • Poor Boating dreams, and miserable lies,• The empty bubbles of a pensive mind, And spleen's sad effort to debase mankind. ley notion of both of them is that Emendare Mune Multi') non possunt ; una litura potdst. I have no fondness for this philosophic radicalism ; this moral system which sets out with denying all that the world has accepted, and opposing all that the world has established. Si proficere cup's,' says the great African bishop, prim° firme id verum puta quod sana mens omnium hominum attestatur.' Bacon concludes his great work by repudiating all charge of wilful eccentrk city and opposition : if I have in any point receded from that which is commonlyireceived,' says he, it path been with the purpose of proceeding menus and not in aliud; a mind of amendment and proficience, and not of change and difference ,' and Johnson makes it, the worthiest praise of Newton that he stood apart from the multitude, not by deviating from the path, but by outstripping them in the march. The world may be wrong, and yet we may mistake reverse of wrong for right 'Tis, by comparison, an easy task Earth to despise: but to converse with Heaven—This is not easy. It seems. to Me, that the principle of these men, if they had any principle, was, eternally to differ for the sake of distinction. • A good wife,' says Dards in Lessing's Young Author, I do not ekpect. And III cannot have a very good, I would rather have a very bad one. An every-day, woman, neither cold nor warm, neither this • nor that, is not fit for, a man of letters. Hi cannot have a wife who will assert a place in a ituture dissertation .De bonis eruditorum uxoribus, let me at least have one that will not escape a writer De malis eruditonim uxoribus. Any thing but obscurity ; any thing but mediocrity.' In the same spirit, these writers seem to say : if we cannot be mentioned as those who hisve written in the best taste, we will be named as those who have written in the worst ; if we cannot have the purest sentiments, we will belie the vilest ; any thing but obscu. • city—any thing but mediocrity." Bulwer—to use a happy phrase of Walpole," sold Wilkins, " always writes in issimo. He uses the dialect of Brobdignag. If a man's mind is uncomfortable, it is with him—a hell ! If one sustains a loss which will probably never be made good, it is, in his language, a curse and an immortality ! His exaggerations would make Heraclitus laugh through his tears. The passion which is stamped on his pages -exists always rather in the words than in the sentiment. It is not that excited feeling finds vent In burning eloquence which swells and glows like glass under the breath of the blower, but he seems in the dearth of energy to pour forth these blustering syllables for the purpose of being himself roused by them to ecstasy ; to work himself up like a bully by beating the air. This style is in description what rant is in acting—always growing mightier, as true passion wanes.. There is a certain calmness about the acme of feeling—a security which seems to indicate that the suffering•transcends the powers of language to utter it, or the strength of the sensibilities to cope with it—a composure in the midst of the gloat awful scenes —which it is the highest effort of art to portray ; the rage and the violence belong to inferior grades of sensation, and are the exhibition of meaner artists, When Shylock, in fear of a loss, lances wild threats upon the city's charter, you see that he is strongly excited: when the whole piostrating truth bursts upon him, he says, send the deed after me: I am not well.' Compare this with Croly's Cataline, with the manner of Maturin, Godwin and Bulwer, and you will perceive the differ- MW\m"	WiANLMO ence between the master and the man. As a general remark, by-the-by, our elder classics exhibit the best specimens of energetic feeling temperately expressed.. Lord Byron may be taken as a specimen of power united with fury—the might and vehemence of the whirlwind. Bulwer has copied all his disorder and only forgotten his strength ; he is a prose Lord Byrom—without his genius." " In looking at the productions of all first-rate artists," said Gauden," Shakspeare, Homer, and Scott, for example —it is clear that in every case they are above their sub- ject—they are never overmastered by a passion which they would develope. In the midst of the contest, in the height of the agony, the narrator is cool and judging; hia own sympathies absolutely sleep, and his creations are altogether impersonal. That the excitement shall be in the action and not in the author—that the moving representative shall be the calm exhibition of a troubled scene and not the troubled exhibition of a calm one—is, I apprehend, the experimenturn crud* of art. The strife of Byron and the confusion of Bulwer are the pictures of an ordinary interest mirrored in a disturbed fancy. Homer's song of the battles on the banks of the Simois is as passionless and calm as 'the reflection of them in the stream might be. His poem shows action in repose, boundless passion never tumultuous. Doubting the interest must originate with the author, but hi* business is to transfer it all to his subject. If it be conceded—and I take it t' be undeniable—that genii's is but the highest art, and that, invention being equal, the palm must be given to him in whom judgment is most despotic, we settle the question of merit, when we say that Shakspeare and Scott write like the masters of passion, and Byron and Bulwer like its slaves." " Bulwer chiefly aspires to the praise of portraying character," said Wilkins, " and it is there that his failure is most ridiculous. His system is Rochefoucauld caricatured. He confounds the concentrative and generalising quality of a descriptive character with the broad and diversified substance of a dramatic one. In an epigram we may say, metaphorically and extremely, that a man never means a compliment 'but be nukes $p. lust* ; but to introduce a Lord Aspeden actually making every speech throughout a long conversation, an elaborate 'rudeness, is totally to mistake the limits of art : it is to forget the person the character ; to lose the Ran in the. manner ; to evaporate the substance into the quality. It may be said that in many of the plays of the old stage-writers, Shakapeare among the number, the personages are mere embodiments of a feeling or idea--what Ben Jonson calls personified humours.' But this great distinction is to be taken, that Richard apd Iago are characters of passion, and a passion may well leaven the whale individual into its own similitude, whereas Aspeden, Brown, and that cluster in the Disowned,' are but the character of manners, and manner is an affectation which can but flit over the surface, not enter into the soul.' The qualities of nearly all his heroes are mixed in impossible combinations : the flippancy of one, the philosophy of another, and the feeling of a third are selected ; and, with the addresa of an 'Orford and the morals of a Shippen ; the prudence of a sage and the gayety of a boy ; a fop's extravagance and a warrior's ibrtitude---are all assigned to a common man of the world. This, as Piranesi told Fuselli, is not designing but building a man. It is a want of psychological truth. A Henry Pelham-may have really existed, and may again exist, but the novelist has to do with generalities ; he is to describe a species, not an individual. Vact is the field of the historiai and probability of the romance-writer: and when the latter errs against verisirnility, although he is supported by facts, he violates truth as much as the other, does when he contradicts documents for the purpose of making a credible story. Herein Bulwer wanders farther than Byron ; for the poet's characters being in wild and imaginary scenes may be warped into a strangeness which we cannot venture to deny ; but the novelist's personages being on the terra firma of a brick pavement, and breathing the common air qf cities, are within a far narrower law. Lara, in his wild Solitudes, abovie and beyond the sympathies of the world, is in a very different predtament TO •	.p from henry Pelham, Esquire, No. — St. James'Aitreet, who reds ,newspapers; and keeps apppintrrients by'St. ptephen's cloek. Besides, Byron's people are self-cons'Istent ; they are tinder the controleof some one great impulse/and not swayed by a score pf opporing onett Wolfe, Glanville, Mordaunt, and all that class of choking gentlemen are creative lies ; the author does not sly the thing which is not,' but he images the thing which ' cannot be.. They are, like Macbeth's dagger, A false creation, •	'	Proceeding from a heat-oppressed brain. His greatest blonder, howevik, is the character of 'Aram. His object in that story was to show that a man might be guilty of a great Crime, such as murder, without having his nature depraved by it ; and to de'monstrate this he falsified the character of a man whose story	ed precisely Ott reverse ; for the real Aram s a dirty and vulgar' scoundrel. Fortunately Bulwer's theory is as false-as it is mischievous, for wherever he has deserted fact he has erred from truth." " Bulwer forgets," said Dr. Gauden, " that most men as well as women, have no characters.at all.' He overlooks that class which Nature makes by the gross, and sets no mark upon them ;' a class which largely shades the light of life, and ilitould find a place in the tablet of the faithful portrayer of humanity. He willingly essays the complications of a Hamlet, but the etquisite nothingness of a James Gurney is beyond bisk, skill. He discerns on the shoulders of every lackey a' head that might inform the counsels of cabinets. His heroes have their dinners announced by men who might put the Duc de la Rochefoucauld to the blush. Every jockey salutes them with an epigram, and every land- lord converses in syllogism. His very animals/ have characters: tot canes, tot ingenia. His philosophy, ., though it seems tome but a trick of words, commends him I believe to many, who, captured by any thing that is brilliant	novel, do not stop to inquire if it is true. When I daily hear perspicuous writers, such as Addi- son, Croldsmitb, and Scott, put aside as superficial a •	• •	thinkers, and the tripod gin. to those who an consiti &tied deep.only,hecause they are obstiure, I am, tempted to keep in mind, a curious but swot voluttkote reiharik of Bolingbroke upon that point. • To speak the tiliftr,v says that ,sagacidui writer, though it may stem ea paradox, our knoWledge on many subjects and pprticuIiirly on philosophy and metaphysics, must be superficial to be real. This is the condition of humanity.' If Scott has no system of human action, it is because human action. cannot be systematised. But one might pardon even greater charlatanry than Bulwer's, if it vore ret fOrth in tolerable English. His style., with its varnish of words and its garntsb of flower*: is decidedly the most vicious of the age; I can forgive almost any ding but the one-legged poetry of staggering prose. He does not use. comparisons for illustrations; simile seems to be with him a mode of writing. It puts me fairly out of temper to see a man, circling round some thin notion in ,endless gyrations of metaphor. Scott uses tropes very freely, but his flowers have always the significancy of an eastern garland." "All Bulwer's conceptions," said Wilkins, "lack the freshness of true creation. There is a total want of generosity in the author's mind. It is in this wide nobility of sentiment, this sympathy with the free and the foreign, that Scott ,standf so pre-eminent. AU his characters are sparkling with the dews of natural life. When Richard met Saladin, and was challengedby the foracen to a trial of strength, he undertook to sever with his sword, an iron bar of an inch and a half diameter. One of his attendants warned' him of the magni-, tude of the enterprise, and his own enfeetpied health from illness.	Peace, villain !' cried Richard, settling himself firmly on the ground and looking round with fiercoess, Thinkest thou that I could fail in his preence?' I doubt whether Mr. Bulwer would have under- stood the feeling."	• " We may safely venture to admire personally the man who writes so," said I, " fix. he mu. have had a touch of the crusader in him, who describes crusaders I* well. Buiwer never succeeds in placing his charace; •^•	EP ALAI LAM & • ter* independent on hid own mind, and looking at them quite a extra. !le shows, them to us as they seem 'to him, not as`th'ey were; we see them mediately, not in their Own bold individuality. He paps out their natures. too analytically ; in short, he ,describes, rather than exhibits them: The secret of the failure is that he is too much of a metaphysician to be a dramatist. But, after all, say what we may, he is popular beyond all rival, and I invariably bow, in all literary subjects,- to the judgment of the public. Storace used to say that the rnesits of no musical composition could be considered as settled until it came to be ground upon the hand-organs." " If I had not taken so much of Mr. Benton's good wine," said Wilkins, " and if I was not afraid of disturbing the audible slumbers of my excellent friend, Mr. Rolle, I should enter at large upon the subject which you moot. Mit is, I wilt only say that it is not in the nature of-a truly great work that it ever can be popular. Nothing of exalted merit it capable of being premeted to the public ; the Creation,' for example, could never come upon a hand organ. That which lies in the way of the mob enough to receive a full heating, must necessarily be very inferior. There is no music in Yankee Doodle.' If I were to frame an extreme theory upon the subject, it should be upon the principle Of the Greek philosopher.	This is right,' says Epicurus, precisely because the people are displeased with it.' In many matters it must be so; the eyes of the multitude,' said Plato, are not strong enough to look upon 'truth f and generally where they blink most there is most truth. It is constantly happening that in literature as in every thing else, those voices which make up public opinion, are baying darkly where there is no game ; but the blunder is finally discovered. Truth,' says my Lord Coke, may peradventure by force for a time be trodden . down, but never by' any means whatsoever can she be trodden out.' " " Your dclitrine," satel Gauden, " would be quails sopor leftists' to poor Chandos of Sudeley,—the peer less, Sir Egerton Brydges. He has reached the conclusion • that all good books are unpopular, and by a very harm'. less nen distributio medii, resolved therefrom that all unpopular books, like his own, are good. The theme of his musings is still the hope of Milton : At ultitni nepotes, Et embalm cetas, Judicia cequiora rebus fOrsitan Adhibebit, integro sine. The temper of his intellect was in fact, too feeble for the violence of his impressions. I have sometimes heard it said in derogation of Lord Byron's merits, that he was the poet of temperament, rather than of intellect. I admit the distinction between these sources of inspiration ; but in this case, the delicacy of the temperament seems to me to exalt the marvel of the intellect. For immense mental power must have been required to constrain such ardour of excitement to intelligent expression. Passion furnishes materials for creation, but is, in itself, itiantipodes. In the reasoning fervour and logical fury of the Giaour, I am impressed even to awe, by the fearless might of an intellect which every where copes and conquers the volcanic vehemence of feeling. To break up into meaning words the inarticulate roar of suffering,—to syllable the yell of anguish, is like snaffling a tornado, or tying knots in a thunder-bolt." •	" But when I hear of these neglected authors praying for justice, I. think of the Regent's reply to a similar re-,„quest of Voltaire when he had been slapped for being insolent, g mais elle-est faite.' '" " Poor Sir Egerton !" said Wilkins. " The history of his mind and fortunes has matter that might give us pause. Born with talents of no common order, and feelings and sensibilities of the most delicate texture,—the stuff that bards are wrought of; impelled to a career of mental exertion by a most passionate ardour for distinction, and- aided in it by all the advantages which high yank and abundant wealth could furnish, he has, after a long life of toil and struggling, to look back over a dreary track of painful effort and bitter suffering, and forward to a prospect of oblivion. After seventy-five VOL. I.	 years of incessant literary labourp he is known to the world by a caricature in Frazer, philippic in, the Ed- inboro', and a passing encomium from Southey. Yet the old man, an exile in a distant land, with broilen fortune, and unstrung and embittered mind, may teach to every author a lesson that shall make him a • sadder aid a wiser man.' With all his endowments, why is not his statue in the temple of Fame, Merely from want of patient meditation and resolute self-study ; merely because he did not master his genius and control his minperament. When he experienced an inclination to literature, he sat down to rummage among dusty antiquities; when he felt the -stirrings of poetic sensibility, instead of watching them, and seizing a directing theme to the production of feeling beauties, he only speculated about their existence in all great poets,'and thereupon concluded that he too was a great poet. He .should have grappled with s his emotions; and controlled them to creation.* I verily believe, that by intense observation of the workings of his own mind, Budges might have risen at length to such nervous conceptions, as live and move, and have their beinz in Byron's pages. He studied books far too much ; had he burned his folios, the flame might have lighted the fire of a great poetical genius. When he felt, he should have analysed; then he might have reproduced. The want of calm reflection, and the pain encountered in confronting one's own mind, have generated an impatient habit of thought. Heis unwilling to enter upon a mine of deep inquiry ; if a subject of discussion starts up before him, he defers it to a more convenient season, or lets the reader know that he is preparing a separate work upon that point. He thinks in fragments; and, uninclined or unable to continue long upon the wing, ever fails to reach any thing truly great." •	Since these paragraphs were penned, the unfortunate baronet has inherited another and a darker title, " per legent term." The sneer of ridicule was the hest return his literary efforts met in life; but, methinks, "they must have hearts very tough and dry," to use the quaint expression of Hooker, who will now refuse to shed a tear over the sorrows of this high-minded, but most unhappy man. " What you say Is very just," said I; " he has the vfldnesfrather thart'the fulness of the pulse of genius. But after every abatement, I would still give my hearty vote Milt he should take the very highest place among our prose authors. There is no writer whose works I hove more frequently in my hands, and none to whom I feel more inclined to make those grateful acknowledgments which every man owes to him who has improved aid amused him, who has informed his understanding, and gratified his taste. He is the English Montaigne, with vastly strongerblood. His knowledge of the world is thdrough ; his knowledge of the human heart singularly deep and searching. His critical perceptions are unerring ; his critical principles, I think, wrong, but they never affect his conclusions, for he never follows them but in, general speculations; he says, for example, that poetry should be natural and unconstrained, and adds that Gray is one of the greatest of poets. His letters on Lord Byron constitute, in my judgment, the finest piece of particular criticism that this or any language contains, though he assigns the noble poet a much higher rank than you or you would concede to him. His,style is perfect ; formed upon no model, but growing up from ceaseless and easy employment of the pen, it is rich, but not loaded; natural, but full of vigour ; it fascinates by its refinement, and compels by its strength. The harsh points which he often presents to,the reader will prevent his ever being much a favourite with the multitude, but kinder qualities endear him to the man of letters. He seems, in truth, to possess a two-fold nature; of which one part is querulous, irritable, egotistical and assuming; the other, gentle, generous, and genial. That side of his mind which is turned towards men, Is like the side of a high promontory that regards the sea, rough, abrupt, and unpleasant of access : but that which looks towards poetry and the free fields of genius, is like the other side which lies towards the land, and is fanned by the mild inland breezes, soft, smooth, and sunny, mantled with roses, and refreshing to the reposer. To despise golden opinion is too much his failing. But he is a fine thinker, and a judicious selection, in two or three volumes, from the whole mass of his works, would form a treasury of wisdom. He is, moreover, a true poet, and that he has achieved no great poem, is the fatal result of a false poetical theory. If, instead of writing fourteen thousand lines in four years, as he oddly boasts, he had written but fourteen, his fame had been secure. He has not attained the rare and fine art • de faire difficilernent des vers.' " " It is queer," said Wilkins, " that Brydges and his brother reprinters should imagine that the rescuing which they gave to perishing works, was of any service, or should think that they benefited letters while they made a point of limiting their issues to " only twenty copies," or in some cases that I remember " decem exemplaria sok." Surely, such an impression left the book, so far as the public was concerned, the same sealed treasure that it found it. Those bibliomaniacs were a worthless set." " Harmless, rather," said Dr. Gauden. " They amused themselves highly, and they injured nobody. They erected typography into one of the fine-arts, and thus extended the sources of inoffensive pleasure. The investigation of a date or an author's first name, is very capable, I assure you, of delighting and even improving the best faculties of the mind; and to bear of an editio princeps,' from a circle of panting bidders, in the rich consciousness of envied ownership, is a pleasure which a sage would scarcely venture to ridicule, or a divine to condemn. To be unprofitable is not the worst quality of a mundane occupation ; and I would that mankind in the pursuit of honour, wealth, and power, were always as honourably or as wisely employed as was the Roxburghe dub in discussing ekes and algales." " Sir Egerton'a poetry," said Benton, " has one merit; that of being intelligible; a merit, which is certainly rare and probably great ; for as a general rule, the best writing is the most intelligible. Pope and Addison every body can understand ; but what can you make of the poetry of Shelley or the prose of Coleridge " " Shelley, I abandon," said Wilkins, " for I never read him. But of Coleridge it must indeed be confessed, that if he has the truth, he has also the obscurity, of an oracle. Yet amidst the perplexed and tangled disquisitions, with which his writings abound, you meet occasionally with a splendid simile or a glorious burst of poetry, which produces upon the irritated mind, the same startling delight, the same rich relief which occurs to him who, wandering through a thick and undergrown forest by moonlight, comes suddenly upon a clear, amphitheatral opening, where the moon is reposing calmly on the silent grass, and shedding its silvery lustre upon the green-topped trees; he pauses for a moment to gaze on the heaven-decked scene, and breathe in freedom the expansive air ; Erspring of love bursts from his heart ; he blesses nature for her gladness, and plunges again into the thicket, refreshed and invigorated in soul. The obscurity of Herand and Hazlitt proceeds from a very different cause from Coleridge's; for true, no meaning puzzles more than wit.' Hazlitt's thoughts are like the illuminated letters in the old manuscripts ; so overlaid with ornaments that you cannot get at the meaning ; and when you do fathom it, it is but the fragment of the sign of an idea." " Let not Coleridge," said Mr. Rolle, " that spirit, still, of height Unknown,' be classed with that servile company who wore his livery and disgraced his name. In the store-house of criticism there is no line which has measured the depth of his seeing ; no glass has yet descried the height of his imaginings. With his works before you, it baffles you to comprehend and to measure the extent of his powers. His mind was a different faculty from that of other people ; it was an extraordinary combination of perception, feeling, and imagination, and all these qualities seemed to be exerted at once; it was as if he had observed with his heart, and thought with his fancy. You look upon his discoveries in the tracts of truth, with the surprise and awe with which you would watch a man performing operations by means of a new and peculiar sense. He stood at the centre whence poetry, morals, and metaphysics originate, and he commanded them all. He became a poet by piercing all the mysteries of philosophy, and a * philosopher, by treasuring all the revelations of poetry. It would take a life-time to exhaust his discoveries. His sentences are heavy with rivelled thought ; they are swollen with pregnant conceptions." " Coleridge thought in metaphor," said Wilkins," and that makeS a brilliant but not an accurate thinker. His invention was endless, but he was destitute of judgment. He could analyse in detail illimitably, but he could not compose or embrace many rival suggestions. A master intellect habitually contemplates every thought in its relations to all other kindred or opposing thoughts ; the entrance of Sehama into Padalon is an emblem of the manner in which a great mind reaches truth. Coleridge could invent theories, but he could not choose between them ; he could broach opinions, but he could • not tell their value. He could build systems and he' could defend them ; but he could not demonstrate the truth. In fact, Coleridge was a poet ; the greatest, perhaps, that ever lived ; but he was no more than a poet. He carries into all researches the spirit of a dreamer by the lonely woods. All his thoughts have been bathed in the tide of 'the passions ; his reasonings seem to be wet with sensibility. His breast is momently swept with the gusts of feeling; his sentences seem to tremble with feeling. There never was a mind in which the materials of poetry lay in - richer or more splendid profusion," " As a poet for this life, I prefer Wordsworth to all his contemporaries," said .Rolle ; " I hope to read Coleridge in another. I look upon Coleridge as one who, in the cycle of progressive being, had got ahead of the rest of mankind by two or three stages of existence. I imagine, however, that if Pericles were alive, he would prefer Campbell to all the poets of this time. But if you require .feeling in poetry, there is no one richer in the wealth of the heart than Mrs. Hemans. With what luxurious Sybaritism of sensibility she atmosphered her mind I She seems to have realised to the fancy the delicious impossibilities with which Volpone tempted Celia : Your bath shall be the juice of July flowers, Spirit of roses and of violets " " I cannot join in the high admiration which you express of Coleridge," said Dr. Gauden. "I confess myself unable to take the distinction which is very usually admitted between the man and the author. I cannot respect even the intellectual qualities of one who lived, like Coleridge, in open defiance of the most solemn and sacred duties of life. There must have been something very unsound in the perceptions of a mind that did not see and admit that the obligations resting on a husband and father were paramount to all personal, aspirations after Fame or even Wisdom. If virtue and poetry are inconsistent, no man who has just notions of the real value of reputation, would hesitate which to renounce. Integra sit morum tibi vita; Thee Pyramis esto : Et poterint tumulo sex satin esse pedes." "I fully admit the weightiness of The suggestions Which you make," said Wilkins ; " but before we condemn a man like Coleridge, let us consider the mighty temptations which assailed him. Let us remember how nearly we have been destroyed by the puny passions which have played through our breasts, and let us not mock the mighty ruin over which the hottest plough. shares of hell have been urged. The strong seductions and fierce trials of the heart of genius who shall estimate Such men are in a raging tumult even from their very birth ; they are living always in the midst of tempests, and never, during life, enjoy the blessing of clear vision or calm touch. They are never masters of themselves ; but their will is swayed, like a wave-mounted ship, by the -surgings of the sea of passion. What does an ordinary mind know of the inner storm and whirlwind, as it were, of restlessness,—the craving after excitement and high action,—the inability to calm the breast and repose in fixity,—the wild beatings and widowed longing after sympathy,—which rack those hearts which are born with the ocean's temper and the lion's mettle. The feeling which attends these high en- dowments Is like a caged panther, that rages to leap upon some satisfying object, and if barred from that, boils and lashes tumultuously in its den. Then consider how hard a task it is for the lofty intellect to learn humility,—for the blood-royal of proud genius to be tutored,—for the far-glancing, eagle-eyed, eagle-spirited soul to be schooled in the dull lore of duty. About the heart of genius the passions gather as to a stately midnight banquet : hard-breathing Ambition, frowning, stone-eyed,—deep-masked Love, scattering from his censer dimMing fumes and enervating odours,—coarsevested nide, with curling lip, ready to pluck his eye out if it be :admired,—lean Sensibility, quick-glancing, pale-cheeked and vulture-beaked. Existence is to such men anguish ; every pulse is pain ; their breath is a sigh. The inward and incessant self-strife of the spirit, .—the instinctive jar and discord of the feeling,—the inevitable chasing of the soul even in its calmest hours and quietest moods,—will move the heart to tears without a grief. Shall we wonder that this constant suffering makes them reckless, and saps, and -shatters the moral being	It is the severe lot- of genius that its blessedness should be its bane ; that that wherein its heavenly franchise gives it to excel mankind, is the point wherein it should be cursed above its brethren. For its high privilege is to taste of pleasures inappreciable to mortal tongue ; in the empyreal privacies of lonely thought to enjoy the manna of angelic natures,—in the fragrant bowers of fancy to feast on dream-food,--- On honey-dew to feed, And drink the milk of Paradise. Thus is its taste depiaved by its celestial birthright : and thus, does its craving after rich and strange delights render it ever restless amid the pale joys, and cold and quiet offerings of the earth. To Suffering also jt brings the same exquisite sensibility as to pleasure; it is Apiclan in its griefs; pursuing and extracting the taste of wo through all its hidden forms. The spirit that abides in the still valleys of contented mediocrity can know as little of the gigantic sorrows and sufferings and allure.. tnents and goadings of a great soul that mounts amid the shelving cloudage of the highest skies, as the shaded pool can know of the deep sweeping currents of the sea, or the swelling whirlpool of a gulf. Let the shore thick-strewn with the wrecks of gallant ships, and let the haggard and storm-stained state of the vessel which has escaped, declare the perils of the deep ; and let the utter destruction of Burns and Byron and Rousseau and Mirabeau,, and the rent and shattered escape of Johnson and Nall and Collins, confess that genius is an awful gift. The lowest slave, The veriest wretch of want and care, Might shudder at the lot that gave To genius Glory and Despair. Seeing that these things are so, g Quod ergo tantis auxilium malls Is may we not ask with the Italian poet Ecquid Platonic docta volumina, Cultique preceptor Lyoaci Sollicitam recreare mentem, Modumque curie figere tristibus Possunt? vel aura perpetuo fiuens, Rivus ? vel in sublime tollens Per tituloa popularie aura? Fomenta aunt hae proms mania; •	Luduntque falsa vulgus imagine; Vulgique primores acuti Viribus ingenii tumentes. At to beatam ducere si cup's Vitam, pencils fiber ab omnibus Adluereas Deo, plaque Mente sacrum venerare numen. Hine hattries veram et sapientiam, Verumque hbnoreni, et divitias • ferue Quail nee tyrannus, nec tremer;di Vis rapist truculent& belli. Quicquid bodorum cernitur uspiam, Hoc fonts manat: quo sine, quiet licet Terrasque, cmlittunque regna Possideat, miser usque vivit. It is, indeed, a noteworthy fact that no man possessed of that character of genius which is attended with very susceptible feelings, has ever escaped moral shipwreck, except under the pilotage of ardent religion. Long was Coleridge the sport of the wayward winda;of passion ; but he found at last the quiet harbour. Doctor, can you remember his opium, when you read his letter to little Kinnaird ?" " When I call to mind." said Dr. Gauden, " the history of the Popes and Spensers of another dad•, and the Scotts and Southeys of our own, I must hesitate before I admit that genius always requires this special dispensation. If you would compare the moral tone of true genius with spurious,—of that poetical ability which springs from the soundness of the head, with that which is generated by the corruption of the heart,—contrast Lord Byron with Mr. Southey. Byron's enervating interest is like the fatal sweetness of the panther's breath and body ; Southey's untainted vigour has the fragrance of the free mountain air of virtue: the one degrades and belittles the reader ; the other exalts and strengthens him : the one is naturally inclined to believe the worst, which is the certain mark of a mean spirit and a wicked soul ;' the other is generous with the princely heart of innocence.' Southey is of the royal lineage of ancient genius, and has the robust and warrior-blood of the old kings of wisdom : with the lascivious pleasing of modern favourites,—the perfumed softness of these immortals of a season,—he has no kindred. Mint of us destine only that time of age to goodness, which our want of ability will not let us employ in evil :' Southey has consecrated to virtue the best vigour of his manly days. With one or two exceptions, I confess that rarely trouble myself to open any of these late volumes of elegant literature ; and when I do, I usually find that no faculty is exercised except my memory. The remains of the old temples at Athens have served as the materials of all the structures that have been erected there during many centuries, and the quarry of Pentelicus has not been opened since Phidias and Praxiteles digged beauty from its bosom. The material condition is but an emblem of the intellectual ; the moderns have never visited nature as their ancestors did, but have been contented to trans- pose, to vary, and reset the gems which their bold predecessors selized from the treasury of her wealth. While I allow the moderns to dictate upon all subjects relating to the economy of life,—since, that matter being founded on experiment, the latest production is likely to be the best,—for all that adorns and charms existence,—for elegance in poetry, and purity and strength in prose composition,—we must turn to the models of another time. The throne of science may be'founded in cities, the resorts of manhood ; but the shrine of the muses is in the valley of our childhood. Thither will we retire from the mechanical and • busy hum of men,' to listen to those masters who instruct without clamour, and heal without stripes.' The fresh vapours that curled about the mountain-lops, melted in the morning of our existence into streams of crystal purity, with which the narrow and muddy rivulets that gurgle at midday, may not be compared. Life is not long enough for all knowledge, and while we linger among the moderns, we may be neglecting the wisdom of antiquity for ever. Non refert quam multos, sed quam bonos habeas libros; multitudo librorum onerat non instruit, et satius est paucis auctoribus to tradere, quam errare per multos. I am at least sure of meeting among the ancients, what will neither,vitiate my principles, nor deprave my passions ; but much that will better fit me for the duties of life, the only thing that is valuable in life. The sounding extravagances of Byron, and his fellows, are to me but as music to a deaf man's ear ; and I could wish," added the doctor, rising, " that on my tomb might be inscribed a sentiment, like that on Evelyn's ; 'In an age of extraordinary events and revolutions, he learned that all is vanity which is not honest, and that there is no solid wisdom but in real piety.' " CHAPTER XI. " Fits of sprigktly malice do but bribe	• The languid mind into activity, Sound sense, and love, itself, and mirth, and glee, Are fostered by the comment and the gibe." WORDSWORTH. I HAD accepted an invitation to a dance at Mrs. It was late when I entered the rooms, and they were fully crowded by the thousand and one persons whom all manner of motives call together on such occasions. Mingling in the streams which flowed devious around the dancing parties like the water around the eyotts of the Bosphorus, I submitted to " roll darkling down the torrent of my fate," till the destinies of the voyage at length brought me, to a corner where I effected a landing, and paused to make my observations. My meditations were interrupted by the gay voice of my old friend Seward. " My good fellow, how d'ye do i I am glad in sooth that you are here, for the evening is so warm that I was about to melt, thaw and resolve into adieu ! but I shall cool near you, for you are looking as frigid as the faith of Zeno." " Your presence is to me," said I, " as manna in the desert. I am half a stranger here, and as you know every body by nature whether you have ever seen them or not, pray give me a catalogue raisonnei of this goodly companie." ' " Any catalogue of the women," said Seward, looking deliberately around the room, " of the unmarried ones that is, would be a sale catalogue, I suspect, rather than a rational one. To begin, this is an article in front of us to which I would call the attention of purchasers ; a volume in magnificent preservation, and lettered, but wholly free from gilt. Years of hours has passed over • her, like	dex over the clock's face, recording changes,-	unchanged." Perhabs," said I, " she has lived so long that she has pained from the influence of time, into the changeless regions of Eternity." " One would be afraid to touch that woman," continued Seward, "lest she should crumble to dust at the conrt. Were you to meet her in the vestibule of the British Museum, you would imagine that you had stumbled by mistake on the Egyptian room. Pettigrew would be in ecstasies with her. If she should happen to lose her title to life, which is generally a copyhold at the will of the Lord, she might continue to hold by prescription." " Her memoirs would form an interesting volume." " I am told that she is preparing her reminiscences of the court of Cleopatra. Next to her is a lady who should figure in Dr. Askew's catalogue ; she squints like the queen in a pack of cards, and has a bitter pride of soul corresponding. Full slaty years the world has been her trade; No passion gratified, not e'en her hate. She has thorough experience of life, and that experience has made her temper as stinging as coloquintida. It is the unpartalcen privilege of the loftiest minds to know the world without being disgusted with it. Earth has seen but one man who could draw a Falstaff after having painted a Timon." " What a contrast," said I, " to the bright scene which we now behold, would be exhibited, if we could have the inner bosom of this company laid before us !" . Yes," replied Seward, " gay as these people seem, many a smiling face is but the mask of cheerless misery, or ferocious passion. Here is the mother's desperate gitme ; the neglected wife's sad counterfeit of joy ; the heart-sickness of the unnoticed well-born poor, and the embittered struggle of the low-born rich ; the weary disappointment and renewed mortification of the fading beauty withering on the thorn and the anxious jealousy of the rivalled belle. It is a fortunate thing, my vol. .	 a-"ACv	if Saa. &Ail • dear Pulteney, that Momus' plan of a windowed breast was not adopted. Every heart knoweth its own bitterness, and heaven bears witness that that knowledge sufficeth. Do you see that blushing rose-bud of forty " " Yes, does she not paint " " She is now only pally-coloured ; she is blue in the morning, and vermilioned at night. Though awkward and ugly she is a charming intellectual woman, being like a Corinthian column, chiefly ornamented at the top. If her mother had not been, like St. Paul, in labours most abundant, she would have formed a very desirable connexion ; but as it is, instead of getting a handsome estate of entail, she will only get the beggarly tale'of an estate." " Society and the law," said , " in this country, agree like a miser and his son ; the sole object of the one being to collect, and of the other to dissipate." " The involuntary respect which the world pays to rich men," said Seward, " has always been to me a matter of marvel. We despise power when we are beyond its reach, and we hate the man of blood ; but we pay studious homage to rich men who we know can never possibly benefit us ; we crook the knee to wealth where no thrift can follow fawning.' Now there is a fat brute ; the very Mount flank of the 'human intellect ; vulgar, low-born, and illiterate ; yet he commands more deference and attention than any man in the room, or woman either;' and all through a successful voyage to the Indies. The cause of this passes my understanding." " The reason," said I, " is, that definite superiority is always more impressive than indefinite, though the latter be greater ; hence blood is more respected than talent, and money more than blood." " There is a cant," said Seward, " of believing that wealth is more potent in this, country than in others ; but that, like all popular talk, is false. Gold every where is magical ; there is not a government in the world which is not essentially a chrysocracy. Aladdin's lamp we may be sure was of silver." o The reason of the mistake," said I, " is, that in other countries wealth and rank aft generally united ; the presence of the latter implies the existence of the former, and the reverence which is offered, to the one is supported by the other. The power of money is equally felt every where ; it is more acknowledged here. The regard for it is less concealed, and creeps more into our, daily speech." "-Yes," replied Seward, " we instinctively take worth, as Cleopatra took a speech of Anthony, in a dolorous sense.' That old fellow we were speaking of, is quite a poet : the muses, I suppose, alighted upon him by mistake for Mount Helicon.. The sight of a person like him must first have suggested the application of the name of Microcosm' to man. Be is a bachelor, and wisely remains so; for though Bentham treats of marriage as an ceconomical' relation, he more justly esteems it an expensive one." " Who is that that just nodded to your " His name is Somers ; he is a perfidious parasite, poor and a parvenu ; but one whose constant sprightliness makes him always agreeable. Though every body's very obedient servant, his language is generally that of a superior, and his bearing singularly independent ; for he has sense enough to know that in order to have his voluntary servitude accepted, he must proffer it with the condescension of a master. We court the subjection of an assuming man of fashion because we please ourselves by thinking that we command the ruler of others. The acceptance of a favour is always accompanied by a slight sense of inferiority in the accipient, and we love not to be obliged by one whose crouching we contemn. To rule securely we must in reality serve ; to serve profitably we must in appearance rule." •	" What is his profession " " He entered an attorney's office, some years ago, but never seriously obeyed the • Law's serious tall.' The few clients he had, he lost by idleness ; for a lawyer's fee is always a fee conditional. At the most flourishing period, I imagine he could not be considered as more thap a monoptote in his profession. His carelessness, I suspect; compels him to the profession of a crane- •	. Biologist—one condersat with the habits of the long-billed species. "He lives, as they say, by his wits ; but how long that means of subsistence will continue I know not, for to cdkxte to finals money's end soon brings one to one's wit's end. He is clean gone for even' for the continued habit of doing wrong has in him eaten out those habits of doing right which the soul brings from heaven, and he has utterly lost his selgrespect. Take warning my son, and fall not into dangerous ways. Commit crimes occasionally if you like, but avoid the practice of small evils. We talk of acquiring a habit ; we should rather say, being acquired by it. Habit is the janisary power in man ; passion and principle the antagonist revolutionary powers for evil and for good. How often the latter will prevail may be judged from there being but one Mahmoud in history, and one Henry the Fourth in fiction." " Thank you for your counsel. Who is that distrait, but manifestly affected youth by the wall " said L " A young man of moderate talents but morbid egotism ; who, having read that Byron, and Shelley, and Gray, and a hundred more were silent and distant in company, cherishes the same awkwardness with all the enthusiasm of sympathetic talent. Vitium, Gaure, Catonis babes. Half the vices and most of the absurdities of young men arise from their riot discovering that they are not men of genius." " Men who live alone among their books," said I, " can scarcely ever take the just measure of their own minds. But a little conversation with business or society 'Non clears the judgment, and the running stream shakes off the mantling self-conceit that has creamed in repose." " Yes, for that kind of morbidness, as for private injuries, the remedy is by action. There is a person before you, of whom it were an even wager at any given moment, whether he be in the theatre or the church-. whether he be fighting cocks or presiding at a prayer-book society. He is a professional rout, and an amateur Christian. For Christianity like the rest of the fine arts, has its professors, its critics, and its amateurs; the Catholic church containing the most professors, the Presbyterian the most critics, and the Episcopal the most amateurs." " He belongs, I suppose," said I, " to that extended class of persons who are churchmen without being believers." " Just so; and the demagogue bishop of = stands in the same company." " Is he not sincere " •' As Wordsworth says, He is sincere As vanity and fondness for applause, And new and shapeless wishes will allow. The best defence of him that his best friend could make, would be that, in his ardent fancy he has so completely identified himself with his cause, that what the world deems selfishness he persuades himself is devotion. I can pardon all but his writings ; for though he plumes himself upon them, and seems resolved, like St. Paul, to show his faith by his works, his literary pretensions are beneath contempt. His mind is a small one, and seems to have been 'fed from youth on the literature of newspapers and souvenirs. The trash of quotations with which his brain is crammed and his writings are larded, render applicable to him the epithet of Shirley about Prynne voluminously ignorant ; yet when you pass on to the original part, you cannot help exclaiming, would God it were all quotation.' His harp, too, hangs by the waters of Babble•on ; and that is the saddest part of all, for a fool in verse is twice a fool in prose.' " " I am afraid, my dear Seward, from your manner of treating the pious, that you are 'little better than one of the wicked.' I should be afraid to go to church with you, lest, like Robert Morris, you should alarm the congregation by knocking at the door." They tell a good story of Sheridan in that matter," replied Seward. " The witty statesman and dramatist was once prevailed on to go to church with his wife, or perhaps entered the sanctuary to avoid a creditor. &UV	va :.JJX• A • It was the first. time in his life he had ever been there, and he was profoundly ignorant of the etiquette of the place. The only public assemblies with which he was acquainted were the House of Commons, and the Theatre ; and reasoning from the analogy of the most respectable, as soon as the clergyman began, Let all the earth keep silence,' Sherry roared out with vehement good will, " Hear ! hear ! hear ! hear him ! hear him ! hear him !' The astonished visages of the congregation soon convinced him that he was wrong, and drawing on his other source of experience, as soon as the exhortation was finished he began to clap lustily, and pound with the end of his cane. Finding that this blunder was worse than the last, he roared to the Sexton, here, box-keeper, let me out of this box ;' and made his way home from his first, -last, and only visit to the steeple-house." " To recall you to your Asmodean occupation, pray who are -those two persons conversing near the window " They are two brothers, and of the most opposite characters possible. It is marvellous how two persons coming from the same source and going through the same scenes, should be so different. One has grown sillier and pleasanter every year ; the other, shrewder and severer every day. The head of the one and the heart of the other have met the bustle of the world as an ice and an egg meet the fire ; the one becoming softer and the other harder. The latter of them, though otherwise much a gentleman, is a great dealer in proverbs : and rightly, for the unwritten wisdom of the world is greater than that which has been penned. There is a person near them whose history proves how politically and socially as well as morally true is the sentiment that one man plants and another reaps the harvest. He is a merchant, once of great wealth, who ruined himself by undertaking great schemes which others of less ability are now prosebuting with boundless profit. It is always so : the first founder of a great scheme of wealth, though he may begin as rich as the cream I am eating, will infallibly terminate, like the end air a AK a• sass a •	atia of most of the towns of India, poor. When he retires to starve on a crust, Then in the vulgar yelling press, And gorge, the fruits of his success." " There is Scribbleton, the tourist, I see," said I. " He has done,' France and Austria, and I presume will soon despatch. America." " I met him once," said Seward, " on a steamboat in the. west, and happening to have a copy 'of Xenophon's Memorabilia under my arm, I complimented myself on the similarity of literary taste which our choide of the same author for a travelling companion exhibited. How, so said he, with a puzzled air. Why,' said I, I travel with the Reminiscences of Socrates, and you with the Expedition of Cyrus' What I most admire in Scribbleton is his sacred regard for truth ; he esteems it far too highly to allow a grain of it to be thrown away upon a volume of travels. There was 'some difficulty lately about securing the right of publishing some of his tours, and I advised his publisher, if he could not get a copy-right for them as books, to take out a patent for them as inventions. Those professional tourists who come fbrth one after another and gather up and tell the ten-tithes-repeated nothing about the country, put mein mind of a sort of bird called the alcedo, which frequents the channel of the Bosphorus. For the flight of these birds no motive is known ; they seem to be impelled by a restless instinct to keep perpetually moving up and down the, narrow strait ; when they arrive at one sea, they wheel round and return to the other. The French call them les limes damnees,' because they never have rest. Their flight is as still as death, and no one ever heard the sound of their wings. These tourists are as restless, as senseless, and as dull: would God they were as silent." " It is these fellows, I imagine," said I, "'who keep up the irritated feeling which has so long existed between England and America ; they sow: contempt, and they reap hatred." •••^•• . " That feeling was inevitable by the relation in which the countries stood as elder and younger brother, and is now passing away because the relation is approaching equality. America had always been looked on as the boy,' and it was forgotten that the boy would some time become a man ; England was jealous, that one whose swaddling-clothes were still in the drawer, should presume to argue and even claim control. But the alienation is not natural, and cannot continue. I, as an American, claim share in the glories of England before the revolution, as the glories of our own parent ; I claim share in her honours since then, as the honours of our own brother., Mutual pride has hitherto kept as apart ; but as we are the child, and also made the breach, I think that the offer of restored union should come first from us: sure I am that it would be responded to. I would say to America in the words of the poet : Incipe mums puer, risu cognoscere matrem." " Scribbleton," said I, " is an example of a tourist who has reaped the mental but not the moral benefits of travel. He has been far, seen much, and thought deeply; but he has never escaped from that atmosphere of proud diffidence and sensitive contempt which he first brought with him from his study. Moon-like, he has moved around the world, but always revolved about his own axis. He has tasted the world, but has not used the medicine of society. In crowds, and looking outward, he has been alone, and living inward." " The man who lives alone," said Seward, " is apt to forget the individuality of others; the man who lives in society, is apt to forget his own. The former becomes egotistic, the latter, impertinent; the one is scornful, the other undignified. Contempt is the disease of solitude. Ascribe to residence and not to reason, the bitter gibes of Byron, Landon, Brydges and Southey." " To the union between literature and society may be ascribed, I imagine, much of the decline of that ferocious acrimony which defeatured the writings of the old scholars. That spirit of war to the knife,' which wishes the pen were a poniard, now lingers only in the theological lists. The church is, still, often defended like the altar, by railing. The time has passed in which the moral character perished with the critical reputation, but it is still held that nothing but a knave can divide the church." " The reformation, or the principle which it asserted, bred these broils. Under the thick blanket of infallibility, we had still snoozed without a dream." " Agitation was a necessary consequence of reviving knowledge. Light alWays breeds a` tumult in the air. There are two gases which, being mixed, are quiet in the shade and explode in the sun : thus, also, in churches and in nations; the elements ofscord repose in quiet union beneath the darkness of ignorance, but become volcanic in the brightness of learning. The reformation was less a consequence of the regeneration of Europe. A new spirit was arisen, and it became necessary that its entity and distinctness should be formally proclaimed ; it was proclaimed by one profession in the name of the whole. It is commonly said that Luther failed; that is not true. The reforrnatiOn and the Crusades succeeded, without triumphing : they did not conquer, but they saved Europe from barbarism. And the friends of religion, morality, and good politics must generally be content to gain, their point without the victory." One's reason is with the new church, to be sure, but one's taste is with the old one : it was a structure so Massive and imposing." " Quite mass-ive enough, and rather too imposing," said Seward. " By-the-hp, I went, the other day, into a I dissenting' church ; and I am surprised that these congregations should be charged with departing so much from the Catholic practice : for I found that if they had abandoned the canon,' they retained the missa sicca,' or dry service,' in perfection. One of the worst things about the reformation was its breaking up the ability and taste for building cathedrals. The moral influence of a Duomo is as valuable as its esthetic. I cannot feel piously in the modern barn•like structures, which are, like the terrace of the infernal palace seen by Vathek and Nouronihar, d'une architecture inconnue dans les annales de la term.' " " Do you see those old prudes sitting along the,wall there, like Caryatides I I would give something to know who is the subject of their conversation." " They are doubtless infinitely scandalised," said Seward, " by the short sleeves and low bosoms of some of these fair creatures. A woman becomes the guardian of virtue in others, as St. Angelica became the patroness of teeth—by losing her own. I lately offended one of those matrons, carelessly, and I have suffered more than if I had lost an eye. Would God, Stanley, that in life as in law, a deed without consideration were void." " Who is that foppish fellow with a glass at his eye ?" " A beau: but so ill-tempered a person that I call him a balistre, or cross-bow, especially as he shoots a keen shaft, when he will. He claims to be descended from worthy ancestors ; and the length of the descent is, I believe, not denied. He is greatly attached to a young lady, whom he is too vain, or too lazy to woo ; contradicting, therein, the definition of the law books, that attachment is the means whereby a man is compulsorily brought to court." " He may find, as many before him have done, that an attachment neglected is followed by distress infinite." I left Seward, and strolled into an adjoining room. Standing in the centre of it, in profound abstraction, was a certain Mr. Jones, a man of much sense and science, but the oddest creature in the world. He was one of those persons who seem to have no consciousness of a world of thought or action external to their own peculiar existence and perceptions, and by consequence, lack all feeling of the ridiculous. He had formerly been librarian to some public institution, and his memory, one of Magliabecchian or Giraldian extent, was possessed of all that strange lumber of editions, dates and bindings which Dibdin and the rest of them have classified,into a science. How such a man found himself in a ball-room, it would he as difficult to explain as to tell how any one can read La Martine's Pilgrimage, or a Bridgewater Treatise, or do any other impossible act : probably, the man himself would be the most puzzled of all inquirers to unravel the mystery. Having, by a series of vigorous efforts, made him at length, aware of my existence and presence, I asked his opinion of Ampere's Theory of Galvanic currents. " The best exposition of that hypothesis," said he, in a tone that might make the hearing and the deaf change characters, " is to be found in a volume on Galvanism, published by Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, Pater-noster Row, London, , twelve-mo, hot-pressed, one volume, price ten shillings, boards. The impression is extremely incorrect, although printed by A. Stralian, Law-Printer to the King's most excellent Majesty, Printer's street, London. For example, on page two, signature B, line fourteenth from the bottom, I met with so gross an error as a zero instead of a three in the fifteenth place of the denominator of a fraction. Such mistakes are rare in books issuing from the house, of Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, Paternoster Row, London. The same work was translated into German, and published for the trade by Schweitz, Schwatz, and Schwilzheimer, Wien, price nine florins ; fine paper copies eleven florins and a half, and extra-fine large paper, copies (only ten copies printed) price thirteen florins. The edition of Schweitz, Schwatz, and Schwitzheimer, Wien, I do not possess ; but I have that of Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, Brovin, Green, and Longman, London." " And you adopt the theory, as expounded in this work by Messrs. Longname and Company, Paternoster Row, price ten shillings, boards' " " To a certain extent : but in one point I agree with the view taken by Mr. De Nosta, Member of the Society of Arts at Paris, Fellow of the Royal Societies of London and Edinburgh, Member of the Copenhagen So- eiet) of the Literal". Society of St. Petersburg, Honorary Member of the Austrian Association, &c. &c. Knight Companion of the order of Bavaria, Chevalier de la Legion d'Honnenr, &c. dm, entitled • The Memoirs on Magnetism and Galyanism,' Paris, Revere, rue de -Saints- Peres, , vo, nine francs, fifty centimes, half bound in sheep backs and corners gilt. His view differs from that supported in the work published by Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, Brown and Longman, Paternoster Row, London, twelve-mo, hot-pressed, price twelve shillings, boards, in representing the cause of repulsion to consist in this position of the currents ;" and Mr. Jones knelt down on the floor, and drawing a piece of chalk out of his pocket,. began to describe his diagrams upon the carpet. " My dear Mr. Jones," cried I, " it is not to be thought of, that such invaluable demonstrations should be de- livered in circumstances where I can so imperfectly comprehend them s pray, reserve the proofs till I have the pleasure of visiting you at your chambers." • When I had succeeded in restoring him to his feet, I made my escape and returned to the dancing-rooms. There, in the midst of a brilliant circle of ladies, with every eye fixed on him in delight and admiration;stood Tyler, himself the gayest of the gay, and in dress and manner altogether native to the scene of fashion. I could not help pausing, to admire the talents which enabled this man to change, at pleasure, from the circle of grave debate to the throng of pleasure, with no change of dis- tinction, or abatement of superiority, to command alike the respect of the inquirer after truth, and to fascinate the gaze of the follower of amusement. I had admired, before, the eloquence of his discourse, and the deep penetration of his mind, and my interest was enhanced when I now witnessed him master of the sparkling jest and the brilliant compliment, and Observed his practised ad= dress, and the courtly ease, as of one " to the manner born," with which he mingled dominantly in the graceful strife. I turned to another part of the room, and saw Emily Wilson. I had met her once or twice since her coming to town, and with no other feelings than those of a common acquaintance. I approached her and offered myself to her as a partner in the next dance. Wonderful, and above the rarest forms of brightness that flash upon the fancy, was the beauty of this girl. I turned in what I fancied the calm admiration of a secure indifference, to look upon her as she stood invested with enchantment, as if it were a -drapery. Absorbed by the deep impression of her loveliness, and unconsciously drawn back over the bright links of a long-darkened memory, with the doubtful and surprised interest of one to whom in some careless waking mood, the marvellous pictures of an unremembered dream successively occur for the first time, did I gaze upon her countenance. As I looked upon the splendid neatness of her vestal purity, and studied the mild brilliance Of her dark and morbid eye, which fascinated the beholder by the potent gentleness of virgin fear, and made another's heart more timid than itself, her fair brow, whereon was throned perfect peace, and her lip, which smiled to please itself, and not to win notice from others, I felt as he may feel who unconsciously has clasped a pebble in his hand all night, and finds, by the returning light, that pebble is a diamond. There are women, and not unlovely ones, of whose beauty the whole expres. sion is resident upon the face ; the countenance of Emily was as a shield whereon an inward spirit leaned and looked out. It was then, as I gazed upon her amid the swell of music, and the blaze of lamps, and the exciting scene of festive splendour, that love returned upon my heart. A fresh and manly spirit, refined from the turbid vehemence of my first wild passion, now flowed through my spirit with a breathless gladness. The recollection of the months just passed, 'which had wrought upon my nature with a transforming might, rolled away like a globed dream, and the gorgeous lights of youth ptreamed through the interval, Illumining with the unreal splendours of the dawn, the firm-based perceptions of the VOL. I.	.. •MI V	MI MM., MP MIN • IV present time. All the magnificent hopes of former years came back upon me, purged of their palpable falsity, yet glowing with fervid vigour. Long had my thoughts been estranged from her, and my ancient aspirations strangled in oblivion; but I remembered now that it was for her that I had laboured and lived lonely ; that she, the life-giving goddess to my former schemes was still living, the same but lovelier; that naught had perished of the foregone drama, but that all might be again renewed and realised. These thoughts passed rapidly through my mind, and love rose, tide-like, through my soul. Like the deep joy which we feel when reconciled to a dear friend with whom we have quarrelled, was the gladness which I experienced when thus reconciled to my former self. Perhaps, to speak accurately, it was another and a diverse emotion which sprang up within me, rather than an old one which was renewed, one with which feeling had more to do, and fancy less; but it carried me back to forgotten days, and made me a boy again. When the dance was ended, we walked out upon the terrace which extended behind the rooms, to escape from the uncomfortable heat of the ball-room. It was one of those mild and calm winter nights, when the absolute stillness of the air prevents the impression of the cold that may be in it, and gives a soft and mellow feeling to weather that might otherwise be chilling. The moon was shining in cloudless splendour, as white as snow ; and shedding its pale beams through the foliage of the trees and tall bushes in the garden, threw a lattked shade upon the walks. It was a scene of beauty which refined though it stirred the spirit, and calmed the feelings while it made them intense. " It is odd," said I, in a careless tone, for I was at a loss to know precisely what sentiments Emily might at this time entertain towards me, " it is odd that you and I, who were formerly so well acquainted, should, of late, have qiet so rarely. You have been here a month, and this is positively almost the first time we have spoken to one another." " You cannot imagine that that Is -my fault." " It has been accident, I suppose," said I, " but it is certainly strange." " It was not my wish," said Emily, " that this estrangement should occur: but I could not call upon you, you know, or ask you to dance with me." " Certainly, certainly ; the blame is entirely mine. It was an hallucination, a madness. Can you forgive me " " I Can," said she, with a trembling voice, after a moment's pause. " My conduct has been insane, nothing short of it; but it was an insanity that did my feelings less discredit than my faith. I thought that you had forgotten me, because your calmer manner did not testify that burning recollection which consumed my being : I thought that you despised me, because your moderated tone did not satisfy that diseased craving for sympathy which infinite love could not have filled. The expectation was madness ; but its overthrow, though inevitable, was far deeplier maddening. From the dull anguish of real disappointment, and the keen agony of imagined ridi- cule, I had no refuge but to root up.all natural sensa- tion, and to hurl affection loose into the boundlessness of self. What seemed a fault, was folly; and what looked wild and wanton, was wretchedness. The mise- rable recklessness into which I strayed, was more a wandering from myself than from you. The coming back is a return to my nature's truth rather than my words. You have not forgotten upon what pledge that Moon looked once'!" " Could II" I paused for a moment, incapable of speaking by the violence of opposite emotions, I was then about to re- ply, when the sound was heard of some one coming from the other end of the garden, along the path on which we were. " We had better go in," said Emily, and she turned towards the house. " Will you be alone to-morrow morning" said I. " I will come and see you." " You will find me alone at one.'" At the entrance of the dancing-room a gentleman claimed the hand of Emily, in virtue of a promise, for the next quadrille, and I lingered alone upon the terrace. The garden appeared to be perfectly silent, and after a moment it struck me as odd that the person whom we had heard approaching us, did not make his appearance, for if he walked forward butt a few steps he would certainly be visible from where I waestanding, and there was no other entrance into the house except by the window where I was. It-now, too, occurred to me for the first time as surprising, how any one could have been standing beyondt us in the garden without our hearing him. The whole spaoe of the _ground was small, and this man must either, have gone round by one of the We-walks with the utmost silence, or have been standing there at first, and remained to, listen to our conversation ; and nothing but a wish to put an end, to our colloquy could have, induced him to move at that. moment, and that end, be	accomplished be did not appear any farther. I stepped down from the terrace and went along the. central path. I met no. one, but as I reached. the end beard some one spring over the side wall/ with some noise into the street. My -curiosity was excited, and I ran rapidly to the street-door. of the house, to intercept the person as. he came in,--,-for I had no doubt that it was; one of the company,---and discover who it was. No one was there, nor was any one visible it& the adjacent streets. I returned back to the garden, and found Mr. Tyler strolling in it. " Mr. Stanley,". said he, extending hie, band to me in. his usual calm and gentlemanlike manner, L regret that we have not met more frequently since you have, been in town. I was intending to come and see you in a day or two to tell you of a source of amusement this city contains which you may not have heard of in the shape of a club, and to put you in the way of entering S LI Li= A •	ova it if you, felt'so disposed. There are so few tolerably agreeable divertisements in this country, that I look upon it that when any man has discovered a new source of pleasure, a moral obligation rests upon him to communicate it to his friends. This society, of the construction and preservation of which I assume most of the credit, it has been very difficult to make up; for the Americans, as you must have observed, are about the most unclubable people on the face of the earth. There are no gentlemen so reserved and distrustful of one another. Every body seems to have a) certain jealousy of his neighbour,--I speak, of course, of that class, only, with which we have any connexion,—the highest,—for the commons are associable enough. How different is this self-spiting suspicion from the careless abandon of the better sort of English society,—the delightful indifference of people 'conscious of standing indisputable; there is there no intrusion, no familiarity, and to strangers no unusual forwardness, but among acquaintances more true ease and sociableness than among any other nation that I have ever met with. I have seen and enjoyed this fine companionship, and have always been anxious to enjoy something of the same sort here. After many failures,—collecting widely and winnowing closely, losing the many who would not, and the more who should not come in,—I have suc- ceeded in congregating about twenty persons, who constitute together a very pleasant band: I will at any time carry you to their place of meeting, if you would like to go, and you can afterwards decide whether you choose to be enrolled." " Thank you kindly," said L " I will join you with all my heart. I feel, strongly as you do, -the necessity of men of leisure combining in selfdefence against the men of business. The latter party trample upon us singly; we must unite to resist them. There are many people in the world who are thought dull because they are not appreciated: they would be pleasant and would elicit pleasure, if brought in unioh with others of the same description. I should describe England as a coon• * pit	ELEire try, where every one, whatever may be his qualities, is sure to be appreciated, and that assurance is ex-. tremely agreeable." “ That you can certainly find those who will taste you, and whom you will, taste,' is one of the circun. stances which makes that little island the pleasantest residence on the earth. I am surprised that any one whom weighty circumstances do not compel to live here, should live out of England ; or, to speak more generally, that any one who can live In an old country, should live in a new one. Long practice and repeated experiments have caused the whole system of life to be brought to afar higher state of refinement in one land than in the other. There is the same difference 'that there is between a metropolis and a village : life in one is direct and decided, and looking to the substance ; in the other it is constrained. embarrassed, and ,uninde- pendent. America is a great country in the prospect, but not an agreeable one in the present. There is 'among the English. a disposition to enjoy in passing, which the nervous agitation in which Americans live, looking only to the future, puts to flight. The former make the means their end; the latter divide the toil from the pleasure, and look on labour as a cheerless pilgrimage to the happy land beyond. The one live as they go ; the other put off living till they are at leisure to do nothing but live. The man of principle who now resides in America, may be regarded as making an honourable self-sacrifice for posterity ; but the man of pleasure who lives here is as foolish as the man who, being fond of shade, should, instead of buying a forest, purchase cleared ground and plant it with saplings." "I should myself prefer to live among the English," said I, " because a natural relationship with them makes their country to us, like a father's house to a married son. But the people whom I most admire, and even envy, are the French. They have a philosophy against the ills of life, compared with which the philosophy of the schools is nothing,—the philosophy of the blood. They attain, as a nation, what sages, and scholars, men la= of thought and men of action, of old and now, ih other countries, have striven for in vain. I regard them as being in. truth the most rational and. respectable people in the world.; and that they are ridiculed by us is to be ascribed to that queer propensity in human nature to look upon the unhappy-man with respect and the joyous man with contempt. The Parisian alone has discovered the important truth that it is( not necessary to be happy in order to enjoy oneself. Still it does not follow that an American or an Englishman must be happy in Paris, although that mistake is constantly committed ; their pleasure arises from what is within them, not around them."' The nation which, for political and social advantages I should myself prefer to all others," said Tyler, -is Prussia. It is a nation which lives by law, and there is more freedom in that state than in any country in the world, as there is certainly less in America than in any other. And, indeed, it may be' observed. of every establishment, whether government, church, or party, that if its form is in one extreme, its spirit is likely to be in the opposite. If its constitution represents authority, its spirit will be liberty, and versa viee : if its profession is liberality, its practice will be exclusion, and the reverse. One reason of this is, that no danger being apprehended from that spirit which the form expressly eior-cises, it is not guarded against in use, and soon enters either from the convenience of practice or the natural disposition of men ; and for this cause the highborn are the most affable and the low-burn the most exclusive:—a second reason is, that the administration: of all extreme principles tends constantly to correct that wherein the principle is extreme; for, to prevent an extreme principle from becoming, obnoxious or impracticable it must be tempered extremely :—a third reason is, that nothing can be practicable which is not, im fact, a mean, and that, consequently, if the form is in one extreme the spirit must be in the other, in order that the two be blended, or the one working through, and being muffled by, the other, may in operation constitute the AZILX• required medium. It is farther to be observed of liberty in democratic and despotic governments, that all definite assumptions, (as the royal prerogative in the one,) are limitations ; while all indefinite concessions (as the popular privilege in the other) are without defence, because they are without bounds;--that in a monarchy the king has no party on his side, but the people are naturally opposed, or ready to be opposed to him, so that great forbearance must be exercised towards them; while, in a republic, the fact of one's being ruler is proof that a majority are attached to him, and will support him in all he undertakes ;—and that the government of a republic Is within the natural rule or principle on the subject, and is therefore interpreted widely ; while the government of a despotism is an exception against admitted right and reason, and is, in exercise, necessarily expounded strictly. The Romish Church, of which the spirit was despotic, was, in its constitution, purely democratic,—the voluntary principle. The tyrannical government of the Roman Emperors was, in theory, entirely republican. In our time the most practical freedom is in China, Russia, and Prussia ; and the vilest despotism on earth may be made of the mob-despotism of America. Much ruinous commotion and many a fatal revolution would have been avoided if people had understood that the spirit of a polity may be diverse from its form, and that not the princip:e, but the working of it only, is of importance. It Is a principle of the English law, that the king has the direct and absolute ownership of all the land in the country, and that the landlord has no more than the mere right of using the soil ; the former has absolutum et directum dominium ;' the latter, only • dominium utile,' But as the landlords can do more than use the land, they show their sense in not disturbing themselves about so idle a thing as the ultimate property : the Puritans would have fought about such a thing to the death. Why should a man of sense care that another should assume the right of cutting his head off when he chooses, if he knows that that power will never be exerted unless it Is deserved. When the Gracchan partisan at Rome was asked, If Caius Gracchus were to order you to fire the capitol, would you obey him It he answered wisely, Yes ; but he would never give such an order.' That assurance is the principle of protection in an enlightened despotism ; and it is enough." CHAPTER XII. He who would live in cheerful mood, Must rest-in glimpses still: But slightly hope to share the good, Content to shun the ill. WORDSWORTH. Eheu! aerenum quit nebula tegunt Repenteecelum! quis sonus imbrium. •	CASIMIa. DELIGHTFUL were the thoughts, and delicious the hopes that visited my mind that night as I lay in sleepless happiness. Love is Nature. From ambition, from study. from pleasure and from toil, we start at some time, as from a dream, and deem that such life is madness: to love we turn with the full and unchecked satisfaction with "which a chilled bird, long fluttering over the cheerless ground, at last folds its bill under its wing in its own warm nest, for we feel that affection is the home of the spirit. Love is the only mood of the feelings in which the heart bears witness unto itself, that it is rightly and wisely employed ; it is the only employment of existence on which we do not look back with regret or condemnation. He who has wandered into the hardness of worldliness, and is arrested in his unprofitable errors by the strong hand of a pure attachment, feels, as he returns to kindliness, something of the satisfaction of a good conscience ; for love is the erectness of the mind,—the unlost paradise of the moral life. And there is potential virtue in this sentiment, for it brings with it the airs of a holier clime than mortality may assert, and gives testimony against the degradation of the world. It is the natural evidence of heaven. It teaches how real is the bliss which the unmaterial 'may give; and it tells, what no argument can evince, • and what many a gifted intellect bath unluckily not known, or hath fatally forgotten, that the spirit can .feel. Love sympathises with Piety, if present, and suggests It if absent ; for the one is the health of the heart, and the other is the sanity of the soul. Love, and its return, is the only complete enjoyment in life. It is the only state of which the happiness is in itself; in which to be is to be blessed. All other conditions are valued for what they bring, rather than for what they are; all, more or less, depend upon opinion for their worth. Of Love only, may the general principle be not affirmed, that if we Abstract what others feel, what others think, All pleasures sicken, and all glories sink. It is well that we should have this tried assurance that there is a joy which the world can neither give nor take away. It is well that we should experience this feeling for a time, if it were only to enlarge our consciousness and elevate our hope. Against the follies of the future, as well as the cares-of the present, there descends no more healing or more fragrant balm upon the fretted soul, than when the spirit of the youthful heart nestles in the warm, soft thought of love. Let the sentiment be cherished ; or, if past, let the bliss be remembered : for a thousand eager hearts have strayed into a cold and mad discomfort from not knowing of the still and sacred pleasure of pure love. When, therefore, a glancing eye, or a spring-white smile flashes on the high musings of the lonely mind, let the soft influence it heralds sink on thy heart with a subduing weight: the time may come, when the heaven of thy fancy will shed, upon thy soul no drops like those. I speak not now of that tumultuous and unpoised passion which will sometimes start within the breast, and madden the heart with wild report of pleasure which it transcends the wish to shape; but the clear-eyed, though earnest, affection, which rests enriched in its own calmness, and is all-sufficient to itself -The former of these is fancy built on ignorance, and, by its very nature, must perish whenever it is realised.' The latter is based upon profound and thorough experience, and seems but the renewing of a once-proved confidence, by the free-masonry of kindred hopes. The one is shunned by sobriety as much as-it shuns the reason; the other is respectable before the judgment almost to religion. We may conceive how the spirit on its entrance into a future world may be "changed in a moment," into,a purity fit for the relish of celestial pleasure% when we observe how thoroughly in an instant a look or a blush can fling back the imaginatic* and the heart into the simple tastes and sweet and mild visions of boyhood. To me, as at this time, my thoughts were floating in a golden air, the whole earth -seemed transfigured into the mild glory of a paradisal world. The opal tints of spring-light were on all the forms that rose before my fancy. No memory appeared within my mind that was not tinged with pleasantness. The flush of young delight was new-purpling.all in the air. Within the visible sphere, there rose and spread a summer world of balms and summer sounds, where Hope " reigned lord and king ;" and all was endless life and all Was splendid light. Whether it be to rear the sunny dome of just-approaching joys, or to hew out the &Tool structures of dark apprehension, there is no architect like feeling. When quickened by gladness or fear, the Subtle builder fills all the thought with instant-springing palaces, or dreary caves that have no bound. As with the love of past years, the views and wishes -and sentiments of past years returned upon me, the intermediate period seemed blotted from existence. The renewal of one common interest knit me wholly into union with my former self, and I but dimly remembered any other state or mood of life. It seemed now,.as if in that intermediary time, half of my moral life had been parlayzed, and as if my sense of all things must have been dim and dream-like ; yet, while that time was passing, life seemed to pulse within me as fully and as naturally as at this moment. Such are the mysteries of our being ! It is wonderful how completely the feelings are, in their inception at least, under the control of the will. It is absolutely in the choice of man whether a woman shall become to him an object of entire indifference,. or whether the course of his thoughts and fancies shall be such that his spirit, bending to her as the ocean to the moon, must breathe by her glances and glow by, her light. A week before .I had looked on Emily without an emotion or an impression, because the thought of love was absent ; now, she absorbed my every consciousness ; she had become my mental being ; every.thought assumed her likeness ; every recollection was fragrant with her sweetness: her memory garmented my soul. Her image multiplied itself through every pictured scene; wherever my sight was turned, she stood, with a fascination floating round her. It was with a light step and a gay heart that I set out on the following morning to keep the appointment which Emily had permitted. I rang the bell and sent in my name ; word was returned that Miss Wilson was engaged. " Is she " I inquired, with some anxiety. " She is entirely well," said the servant. " Is she not at home V' said L " She is at home,, but engaged." " Did she give you no message for me'!" " None." I turned from the door, extremely surprised at this denial, and not a little vexed and sorry. I could not conjecture to what mistake on the one hand or the other it could be imputed. I could not have forgotten the hour that bad been named, nor could my card very well have been mistaken; still, it was not possible, after what had passed between Emily and myself to VOL. I.	 . • V	V al ••• .. •• • attribute the refusal to deliberate inattention. I had, however, no means of satisfying the doubt until the lapse of a day gave me authority to call again ; till which time, I must remain in doubt. I was sifting at home in the evening of the same day, when Mr. Tyler was announced. " The club, of which I spoke to you," said he, " sups together to-night. If you feel inclined to go out, we will walk down there." " Certainly," said I, " I will go with you with great pleasure ;" and I took my hat and went out in company. We had walked on through two or three streets when we arrived in front of Mr. Tyler's house. " Excuse me for one moment," said he; " I want to get something here. If you will walk on,	overtake you imme- diately." I strolled on for a short distance and presently saw, by the lamp-light on the other side of the way, a man, whom I was sure was an old family servant whom my father had carried with him to the south. John Black was an important integral in my father's household, and I thought that I should have heard of his dismissal if it had taken place. Supposing, therefore, that if he were the person I thought him to be, he must have come to the north on some business for his master, I ran over and called him by name. He seemed delighted when he saw me, and exclaimed, " I am very thankful, sir, to have met you thus in person. I was just going to your house and should not have found you in. I have this moment come in town with this letter from your father; he ordered me to put it into your own hands, as it is of importance. I return to him immediately. He told me, also, sir, not to let any orre see me give it to you, and to desire you to read it alone." He gave me the letter and left me. I crossed back to the other side of the way, and seeing Tyler coming out of the door at that moment, I hastily thrust the package into my pocket, intending to come away from his club as soon as possible, and read it at my leisure. I should have left him, and gone home at once, but to do so abruptly, might have given him offence, and to state the motive would have opposed the injunction of my father—an order which I resolved to obey strictly, because I did not understand it. We walked a considerable distance beyond the frequented parts of the town, and passed through several winding, streets quite unknown to me, before reaching the place which Mr. Tyler at length pointed mit as the club-house. It was one of those large and princely structures which one meets with occasionally in the retired parts of a great city, of which the character and the position seem so much at variance that it is difficult to tell for what purpose it could ever have served,, and which stands, amidst meanness and obscurity a monument of the caprice of wealth or the fickleness of fashion. The building had its front upon a narrow and deserted street, but the massive marble steps and heavy cornices which frowned in the moonlight, gave it a grand and imposing air. In the idlest mood you would have paused before such a building to guess what its history could have been. We entered, and passed through a lofty arched hall into a large back room, where we found twelve or fifteen persons sitting at a supper-table. Mr. Tyler brought me to a seat near one end of the table, next to a person with whom I had some acquaintance, and as there was no other place near it went himself to the other end of the room. The apartment was a handsone one, well lighted, and hung with pictures of a good deal of merit. An open door at the end led to a library which appeared to be elegantly furnished. I cast my eyes along the table to make my observations on the character of the company. Half a dozen of the number were persons whom knew, and all of them men of fashion and fortune ; the others had a gentlemanlike seeming, and the assembly, upon the whole. was one into which I could not but congratulate myself on finding entrance. At this moment, however, I had no inclination to enter into the gayety'of conversation which appeared to be generally prevailing. My only consideration was how I should escape with the least awkwardness, and get home to read the letter which I had received from my father. My curiosity was strongly excited about it, and I felt anxious to know what motive could have dictated such a peculiar direction of secrecy and caution in receiving and reading it. The business which it related to, might require immediate action, and every moment that was lost might be of deeply unfortunate consequence. I accordingly made up my mind to retire from the table as soon as I could do so unobserved, and make my way home as speedily as possible. I turned to the person sitting next to me, and asked him some question about the club. He told me that the rooms were open at all times, and that the members supped there every evening. A few minutes after, seeing that the attention of the company was at that instant engrossed by some peculiarly interesting topic of remark, I rose quietly from my seat and left the room. When I reached the street door, I paused for a moment to see if my absence was noticed, for I thought it possible that Tyler or some other person might imagine from my abrupt departUre that I was ill, and might come out to see what was the matter. As I stood there, a person came into the door, and at the same time some one entered the hall from a side room ; the two men met and spoke to one another not seeing me, for I happened to be hidden from view by the shadow of a massive pillar in front of me. I lingered listening to their conversation from that sort of vague and mechanical curiosity which one has upon such occasions, and until I heard something that made me more than idly attentive. " Well, Morton, when did you get back " said the person who came from within. " I reached town about an hour ago," said the other, " but without succeeding in the object of my journey. I got to Stanley as soon as horses could carry me there, but it was too late. I found that Thompson had written to him, as we supposed—at least I inferred so from some remarks which fell from his lips, although I could get nothing from him directly. He either suspected my object, or his general habits of prudence kept him quiet. He is a sharp man, is Mr. Stanley ; he deserves to have been a scoundrel. At night I made diligent inquisition among his papers for Thompson's letter, and found, by a memorandum, that it had been sent off that very afternoon, while I was in the house, to- young Stanley here., There was not more than a moment that my eye was not upon him, but in that moment the mischief was done; an owl, you know, must cease its watch, to wink, and the brightest lamp will have its flickerings. Immediately I made this discovery, I set off in the hope of overtaking the messenger who had been despatched with the letter, but the same narrow failure again awaited me. The man whom I pursued did not arrive in town ten minutes before I did, and I made my way immediately to Stanley ; I should have stationed myself in, the house and obtained the packet by some means or other, but unfortunately Stanley had just gone out, suspect with Harold, and, as I suppose the hearer of the letter must have met him in the street." " Stanley," said the other, " is now in that room." " Indeed ! I must tell Harold at once that he has got that paper in his pocket at this moment, as I have no doubt that he has," returned the other : " if he goes out of this house alive, he goes without that packet ;" and the two men went together into one of the side rooms, and closed the door. The letter to which this person alluded was, of course, the one which my father's servant had handed me, and which, as had been conjectured, I had then upon my person. What were its contents I could not imagine ; but I could not doubt the eagerness to possess it which suggested so long a journey for that single purpose, nor misunderstand the principle of action which prompted the ferocious remark which last fell upon my ear. Knowing that my absence would be soon discovered, and sus- pecting that pursuit might be made, I ran as rapidly as • *. I It	EITAINIL. possible, till I came up with a hackney coach, into which I threw myself and ordered the man to drive me home as fast as he could. As soon as I had reached my own house, I took the immediate precaution of having every part of it fastened safely, so that I might be relieved from the fear of any of those attempts to possess this mysterious letter, which the unscrupulous anxiety of these persons might prompt them to make. I then set down to examine the parcel. The envelope contained a letter from my father, and another letter directed to him. The latter I laid upon the table. The letter of my father was as follows : " MY DEAR SON, " I send you this letter and its enclosure by my confidential servant, as the latter is of too much importance to be exposed to the perils of the post. I counsel you at the outset not to read them in any exposed place, nor to suffer any one to touch the enclosed paper. " That paper relates to circumstances of much concern to yourself and me. As you are probably unacquainted with the facts to which it alludes, I will briefly explain them to you. " You are aware that for a considerable part of my life, and indeed up to some years after your birth, I was the possessor of a large fortune, the whole of which was subsequently lost to me. The circumstances of that loss were these: at a time when from various causes there was a general disposition among men of wealth to engage in large monied speculations, and a strong temptation to do so, I became acquainted with a Mr. Thompson, a man possessed of fine powers of mind, and bearing a high character for Judgment and integrity. After a briefer knowledge, than prudence would have sanctioned, I conceived a Warm friendship for him, and we became extremely intimate. An opportunity for a profitable investment of money in the East India trade presented itself at this time, of which Mr. Thompson was anxious to take that advantage which his talents and-acquaintance with business would Yi ...AA Ma./ a •	a I IP necessarily give him : he was, however, not master of capital enough to hope for much success. I at once became responsible for him in a considerable sum, which he adventured with good fortune, and from which he reaped a large profit. The obligation on my part was frequently renewed and always without loss, until I gradually became involved to the whole extent of my estate ; at which epoch Mr. Thompson suddenly became bankrupt, and my whole fortune perished with his schemes. Most of his indebtedness was to a single person, Mr. Torrens, and to him my property was transferred. Mr. Thompson soon after left the country, and till recently, I never heard any thing about him. " Last night, the accompanying letter was put into my hands. It is, as you will see, from him on his deathbed, and confesses the fraudulent nature of the transaction by which I was stripped of my fortune. He, it appears, was one of several persons who have for many years been leagued together for the purpose of aiding one another 'in their schemes ; and I imagine that so much genius and so much depravity were never before united. Most of these men are in the highest ranks of society, and some of them are distinguished for character and consequence; and one or two are at this time occupying important situations under government. To such men it is manifest that reputation must be as dear as life, and the known possession of a secret like that communicated by Thompson might be fatal to the unwary possessor. Torrens was one of these persons, and of course, the obligation of Thompson to him was fictitious. He states, as you will see, that his engagements In commerce were undertaken at the suggestion of Torrens, who seems to have been the master-spirit of the company ; and that their sole purpose was to involve me in the manner which I have described. These men are still pursuing their plans, though the names of none beside Torrens are mentioned. His mode of speaking of the incredible watchfulness and power of this party, suggested the caution which I gave you at first, respecting the secrecy to be observed as to this letter. There is not enough stated by Thompson to vindicate my claims before a court of law ; he says, however, that he has deposited other papers and deeds in the keeping of his private servant ; and it is quite important that we should get them before any thing is known or done by Torrens or his friends. I shall take immediate steps for finding out this person, and will let you know if any thing is discovered. Meanwhile you cannot observe too much caution. Those whom we fear are probably near you. " I offer you my congratulations on the prospect of recovering these estates, which will now be of very great value. You will hear from me again as soon as any thing farther has occurred. " Your affectionate father, ATKY NS STANLEY." I took up the letter which was enclosed in this ; it contained little more than my father had stated. It said, however, with great emphasis, that the men against whom it gave information, were most formidable for their spirit and ingenuity ; and that it was absolutely necessary that entire concealment should be preserved until the moment when all was prepared for action. Thompson seemed to labour under a feeling of the deepest terror, and when I remembered that the discovery which he so much deprecated had already taken place, I could not resist being a good deal agitated. The surprise and alarm which these letters gave me may easily be imagined. It occurred to me at once that the person whom I had overheard in the hall of the club-house, must be the Torrens alluded to by Thompson, as he seemed likely to be the most interested of all in preventing the disclosures of that person. It was clear that he had obtained intelligence of the sending of this letter to my father, had reached his house before it was sent off to me, and was now aware that it was in my possession ;—circumstances which exhibited an extent of watchfulness, and a promptitude of movement, which seemed to justify the highest opinion of his talent and energy. I had much to fear from qualities like these. What struck me as the most inexplicable part of the matter, and suggested very uncomfortable suspicions, was the fact of these two men having been in the same house in which Tyler and his friends were supping, and that they should appear from their conversation to be connected with them. Was it possible that any of that company belonged to that party of which Thompson spoke's These were grave questions. It was probable enough that those persons whom I had encountered at the shore, and who had robbed my friend Seward of his money, were of this same party, and I remembered that I had overheard them express the intention of inveigling me in the same manner when I came up to town. Mr. Tyler had shared Seward's losses before, and possibly he might here also be the victim of this club, and indeed might have been employed as the duped decoy of me to this house. I sat for a long time pondering the various conjectures which these and other considerations suggested. There was a struggle to take place which would probably require the exercise of all the power which I could summon into action, as well as all the ingenuity of which I was master. On the following morning this second letter from my father was delivered from the post. "MY DEAR HENRY, " When I wrote to you yesterday, I entertained a hope that all the measures which we should adopt, might be taken before any thing was known by those persons whose craft and violence we have chiefly to fear. That hope is disappointed. " I had just finished my last letter to you, and had put it into my pocket with the intention of giving it to my servant to bring to you, when a person by the name of Harold was announced, and came into the drawing-room where I was. He handed me a letter of introduction purporting to be from an intimate friend of mine, but bearing date two days after I knew that he had certainly sailed for Europe. The moment I looked at it, I perceived that it was a forgery. I said nothing, but was of course strictly on guard. " My immediate suspicion was that he was one of the gang of which Thompson's letter made mention. I saw that at least he might be one, and knowing that no harm could result from acting upon that conjecture in negatives, I determined on the utmost caution in his presence. He spent the day with me in delightful conversation, and such as might have routed many a suspicion, but I did not relax from my purpose. retained my letter in my pocket until late in the afternoon, and then finding, for the first time, an opportunity of speaking alone to my servant without suspicion, I gave him my orders, and he set off without the knowledge of this Mr. Harold. " My caution I knew was not foolish, and I soon found that it was very fortunate. I retired at my usual hour, and having locked the door of my chamber I went to bed, and soon fell asleep. At an advanced hour in the night, I was startled by a noise in the room, and woke up. A lamp was standing on my secretary, the light of which was kept from my eyes by a screen which had been lifted there from the corner of the room ; near the secretary stood a man. Fortunately, I had waked in the first instance without noise or motion, and soon apprehending the state of the case, I remained still. Looking guardedly over the top of the screen, I saw that the person in the room was Harold; he was examining my papers. He turned over all of them, and at length took up my letter-book, in which I had noted the receipt of Thompson's letter, and its having been sent to you. He nodded his head, laid it down, closed the secretary, and having restored every thing to its place. left the room and the house. I heard him descend the steps, mount his horse and ride off. I went immediately into his room, and found on his table a note to me, dated sunrise of the following morning, and apologising for his leaving me. " That this man was one of Thompson's former con-. federates, that he had heard of his having written to me, and that the object of his visit was to obtain some information on the subject, or, as is more probable, to get possession of the letter, are circumstances which indeed are very surprising, but not on that account the less credible. This letter which I sent to you, tells enough to ruin the reputation of persons to whom unsullied and unsuspected character is probably of great consequence; no effort to possess it will probably be spared. I send you this instant information that you may be prepared in any encounter with this person or his party. You w) be obliged to exert the utmost vigilance. ATICYNS STANLEY." This account completed and explained that of the person whom I had met in the entry the evening before, and showed the error of my first notion that that man was the Mr. Torrens spoken of by my father. One mystery was superadded. My father spoke of this man as bearing the name of Harold; the other mentioned Harold as being at that time in the supper-room. How this multiplication or names took place it was difficult to imagine. That the visiter of my father should assume an unreal name it was natural to suppose: but to adopt the name of another of his party, would serve no better purpose than to expose his own. That Harold was the true name of the person spoken of at the club, appeared from the natural use made of it in this man's confidential discourse, and from its being apparently understood as the true name by the person to whom he spoke.' This impossibility no surmise of mine could explain. I sat down soon after, and wrote to my father an account of what I had observed and conned. I pointed out how accurate his suspicions were of the character of his visiter, and how narrow and how lucky had been his escape from his vigilant energy ; and I assured him of my willingness to co-operate with him to the extent of my ability in his efforts to baffle these men. That evening when I retired to bed, I placed Thompen's letter under my pillow, that there might be no possibility of its being stolen. When I awoke on the following morning, it was gone. CHAPTER XIII. There is a pleasure in frank dialogue, Where mind meets mind in free and full debate. Men may live years and never know the strength That is in others or within themselves. SOUTHEY. I WAS sitting in my library on the morning of that dty, meditating upon the singular facts disclosed In the letters of my father, and brought before me in my own recent experience, when Mr. Tyler entered the room. Pleased with the visit of one whose conversation was always interesting, I dismissed all memory of these affairs from my mind, and prepared to, " cope him," in his learned inquiries. A volume of Southey's " Sir Thomas More," was lying upon the table. " It is singular," said Tyler, turning over one or two of the leaves, " that such a man as the Laureate should exhibit a disposition to believe in ghosts ; and, by-the-by, the inclination is not characteristic of him, for unsophisticated as he is in respect of feeling, few men are more boldly and sternly rational in matters of belief. Probably a few writers with whom the composition of this work led him to be conversant at the time, had tinged his mind with a peculiar hue when he penned these opening pages. In fact it often happens with bookish men that their perceptions are temporarily warped by some great writer with whose effusions they have recently communed, and the opinions expressed under such impressions are not so much, their own thoughts, as the views of another, enforced . by their reason." " As a Christian," said I, " Mr. Southey might be VOL. I.	 loath to disturb what is so intimately connected with the religious belief of so many ; as one would hesitate to draw his bow against a serpent entwined around the form he loves. As a philosopher, he might respect the error which works in the cause of truth. Superstition is the Boating robe of religion, and, as of old, there is often virtue in the vesture of the divine." " If you admit the falsity of the notion," said Mr. Tyler, I would oppose it, as I would every deviation from the strictest truth. It is the nature of error to expand. The admission of small errors into systems of truth has been the greatest enemy of truth in all ages ; and the reason why right has never become triumphant and permanent, is that its defenders have not been jealous of its connexions—have not sternly beaten down the parasite twigs of faisehood which delight to fasten around it. Error is nepotistic, and wherever it enters it brings in its whole family." " It seems to me," said , " that there are many things 'besides those which address the intellect, that tend to keep us on the side of virtue ; and though there be a cross of false blood in them, yet are they the adopted servitors of truth. Hopes and fears, and memories of suffering and delight, based, though they be, in fancy and mistake, go to make up that mingled mass of motive by which great principles of belief and action are lodged in the human character. The mere intelligence of various ages is perhaps the same, and their openness to logical evidence equal ; but their susceptibility to hearty conviction, to that robust persuasion which fixes on the character, and transmutes the nature to its own likeness, is as different as the character of the times, and that is as various as the institutions of the age. Now, it is one thing to inform the mind and another to convince the man ; one thing to prove and another to convert. The understanding may perceive an external result, without the sense rendering assent to the conclusion or taking it home to itself as among the vital entities of moral certainty. Bayle recognised, in geometry, the necessity of a certain result flowing from a given promise, without yet admitting that result among the tried conclusioni and new data of his mental being ; he comprehended the proposition by his intellectual observation, without any impression on his spiritual consciousness ; he saw but he did not believe. This difference between impassive mental perception and earnest moral conviction is alluded to by the Saviour where he says • that seeing they shall not see.' How various is the persuasion of him who knows by reasoning that there is no danger in facing an assembly, from his who knows it by experience ! The openness to logical influence depends merely on the natural intellect ; but the mode in which conviction shall be impressed upon the heart, varies with the feelings, the personal experience, and the thousand accidental influs• ences which have visited the individual. The mere mental acknowledgment of truth, especially of the truth of religion, is certainly insufficient ; it is necessary to go on and leaven the character with it. To do this, different ages require different means; and what will operate in one century will be laughed at in the next. In one age, the ordeal—in another, the plague—in another, the wonders of science-n another, ghosts—these are the rude' witnesses of truth, which' strengthen belief, not by enlightening the intellect, but by acting on the moral consciousness. Beneath the current of all these varying impressions, stood the certainty of truth ; each of them was transitory—if you will, false ; but while they were the evidences of the truth to some, and the reminders of it to all, they were in no degree the foundation of it. They riveted popular faith, but were neither the cause nor the' proof of the justness of that faith. And I find it a peculiar argument of Providence's being and appointment, that while revolving Time has exhibited in succession, phase after phase of man's mingled nature, it has never failed to bring upon the surface some quality by which it might be open to impressions leading to religion. When a chivalrous spirit was abroad in Europe, the times admitted of all its ardour being incorporated into Christian zeal; when in the broad river of European thraldom, there started a strong eddy of intellectual independence, the position of things was such that it set in a direction to cleanse national faith : in an age of learning, the church was especially learned; in eras.of discovery, science has beery found the peculiar guide of faith ; in times of political feeling, popular passion has burned towards divine truth. The last was an age of metaphysics, and then, the nature and construction of the mind were appealed to, as evidence of God. Without pushing this observation too far, would it be unfair to observe that all the experiences of all ages could not tend to this conclusion of religion, unless religion were true ; that all the rays of light could not turn towards one point, unless that toint were the centre t In objection to the admission of things not wholly true, among the evidences of religion, it may be said that if we find weakness in what supported the faith of other times, future ages may overthrow the foundation of ours ; -that the religion of the poet who was converted by a sound of thunder in clear weather, had in fact no apology at all. But the distinction which I have before alluded to will show us that these things are not the demonstration but the persuasion of a God, that they kindle devotion only because knowledge was there beforehand ; that the mind saw before that there must be a God, and now felt that there was one." " I am afraid that all the evidence of God will, if strictly examined, turn out to be but a suggester of him. Amidst the heap of remembrancers of deity, and the mass of cumulative probabilities of his existence, I have in vain looked for a clear and satisfactory proof of his being. It is a matter of little interest to me whether there be a God or not ; fbr if I were persuaded of his reality, I would defy his power. Still, as a matter of speculative curiosity, we will, if you like, debate the question of his existence. First, then, God is a spirit ;' spirit is a quality, and can, of course, have no independent being, and you can form no idea of it which is not more or less material ; spirit, being immaterial, point to another, yet both residence and motion are the scriptural predictates of deity	cannot have pas- sions, and so the logical framers of the articles declared that he was impartibilis, impassibilis ;' yet anger, love, and jealousy are attributed to	God is love ;' love is a feeling arising upon relation, and of course, he could not have loved before any thing was created, and yet he is unchangeable ; he is described as tender and loving, and the misery of the world must make him miserable; if he is infinitely merciful, he must always pardon, and if infinitely just, never ; and the Christian scheme does not reconcile the difficulty, because that Christ should die for sin, the innocent for the gunty, is not just." " That God is impossible," said I, " is no proof that he is not true. Man's nature is an impossibility, and be is constantly described as inconsistent and self-contradictory. All those deviations from custom, which the course of nature is daily exhibiting, are impossibilities, yet facts." " Still," said Tyler, " what external evidence is there for the naked, fact of his being ? By the argument of natural theology, God is shown to be a satisfactory theory; but the circumstance that an hypothesis explains all phenomena, does not prove the truth of the hypothesis. In electricity, acoustics and light, there are two hypotheses which equally solve all difficulties, and clearly demonstrate that an hypothesis is not necesiarily true. The negative argument from the same source is equally fallacious. It is said that so curious and splendid a world could not naturally exist, yet God is more curious and more splendid, and he naturally exists ; it comes to that. It is as philosophical to believe that the world is self-existent, as that God is; the same argument that proves a creator of the world, proves a creator of God. The notion of a deity only shifts the difficulty." " will freely admit," said I, " and I believe that every thinking believer will do the same, that the intellect can * lea no WIN upon tne existence ana cnaracter or ion, and that the soul alone is capable of taking cognizance of his being. And this consideration will perhaps show how reasonable it is, when we follow intellect only, to expect such contradictions and difficulties as you have alluded to above. God may be viewed through a twofold medium ; firstly, as the mechanical creator of the material world, and secondly, as a spiritual being, recognised only by those powers which are capable of apprehending and feeling spirit. In the former view, he manifests himself only as agent, and when he is sought through his works, it is as agent only that he is to be discovered ; in the latter, he is scanned as a being by the spirit and soul of man, and in this manifestation, it is his qualities and essence that are sought and seen. Any suggestions drawn From reason, which oppugn the fact of his being are entitled to regard ; but those arguments which you have derived from the knowledge of the external world, and urged against any mode of his being, are impertinent, for it is only through the con- sciousness of the soul that we know aught of his nature, and that consciousness reveals no contradictions. Intellect is the instrument by which the first inquiry is conducted, and we may accordingly conclude that though intellect may think of God as external operant, it has no eye to look upon his inward essence, for the hints it gathers from nature do not extend so far ; the spirit permeates the inner world of spirit, and it only can tell aught of the nature of God." " If intellect," said Tyler, " cannot prove the truth of religion, on what do you found your faith " " I am convinced of the truth of Chrigtianity," said I, " by perceiving its accordance with the fundamental form and native spirit of the soul. It is the truth of our nature. It restores to order what was. confused, to symmetry what was irregular, to peace what was dis- turbed. Free from theory, it explains all phenomena ; armed with no persuasives, it prevails with all who have heard it. Think of it, and it calms the sea of care ; tell it, and it stills the storm of passion. How promi- • C a IMplt.; rentiel Me DDe aria in Me experience of, all good men ! no other creed professes to furnish it. Peace is the upright condition of the soul, and religion alone brings the spirit to this state; and what truth save the spirit's counterpart—what fact save one which had lain beside it since the dawn of eternity,. could accomplish this On the other hand, the inherent horror that belongs to -wickedness,—the distress and inward combat of the erring spirit—the strife of the dark soul that knows its darkness.—the blind battling of the remorseless lusts,—the torturing tumult of the giant passions, that can no more be steady than the sea beneath a tempest,—the agony of that crime-fouled mind which has become as a sea to which thought Is a simoom, and memory a sirocco,—all force upon the soul the consciousness that vice is sin. From the nethermost hell of Atheism comes the loudest roar of belief, and the last shriek of writhing despair is a piercing yell of adoration. In the condition of them that are without God in the world, the necessity of belief is the most clearly seen. The livery of sin is less ambiguous than that of virtue; the white garments of purity may be sometimes soiled, but the dark trappings of vice will never lose their duskiness. Behold the minister of infidelity,—not one whose acts are penal, here or after,—not one who dreads conviction, or is= lashed by memory of wicked deeds,—but who yet is wretched by the instinct of his 'spirit,—panting, dustdry,—ever striving, but seeking nothing,—restless, but not from desire,—degraded, though guiltless. Conscience seems to become another self within him, and to perplex his spirit with a double personality. If such a man admits to his troubled thoughts the great idea of God, the health of mind which will ensue belief; will show him that if God be not a fact, he is at least a truth. When we reflect that in a well-ordered (Universe, peace must characterise a condition of right relations in things and thoughts and actions, and that to the wicked,— whether in his breast are rankling ambition's barbed thoughts, or, whether stifled in lustful thoughts, he VI LIC' .[	w must conclude that such a system is false and unnatural. On the other hand, tranquillity and health always belong to goodness ; to fix the thoughts on heaven unbinds the chafing bands of care and irritation, and draws out the thorn of anguish from the wounded heart. # The approaches to virtue,' says Bolingbroke, # are all comfort- / able,' and in the new purity religion breathes around, we find nothing strange or unnative ; we feel that we have but regained what we had lost by birth. And surely that thought which thus restores, not gives anew, —cures, not changes,—which gives expansion to the cramped limbs and strength to the withered arm,—is charactered with all the might and majesty of heaven, and bears the marks of Him whose breath revives, whose garments heal. There be perhaps those who walk the earth and bear no souls ; but those who have, carry with them proof of God. Why should man search abroad and around him for proof of that of which he carries the fullest revelation within himself. lf,those who deny that sin will be punished, were to explore their own feelings, they would find that sin necessarily punishes itself. All the great dogmas of Christianity, such, for example, as that of the inability of man to be operated upon by religious impressions, after a certain 'time, which the Scriptures call the sin against the Holy Ghost, are known by daily experience to those who study the passions. A psychological proof may also be rendered of the natural efficacy of all the means of grace which the Bible exhibits ;—the purifying nature of.repentant sorrow,—the relief and coolness and confidence inspired by prayer,—the strength of faith,—the elevation of hope,—the heavenly-mindedness of charity. Doubtless, through the promises of God these are rendered efficient means beyond their natural power ; yet thus far at least may human knowledge approve the conduct of Almighty wisdom. Leaving these details, the great fact, always acknowledged, that piety alone confers happiness, seems to me proof of its divine de- scent. By few has this opinion, connate with the Psalmist's sentiment, Thou art a place to hide me in,' been better worded than by the Italian poet, Flaminiu& No tu beatum dixeris, optime Saule, superbo limine civium Qui prodit hint at hint eatery& Nobilium oomitante cinctus; Non si farads occupet Africa) Quicquid prtealtia conditur horreis, Gemmasque lucentes, et auri Tossideat rutilos acervos. Nee ille Felix, qui valet uranium Causes latentes oernere, sidertt , Notare doctus, at profundas Ingenio penetrare tams. Sed tu beatum jure vocaveris Qui mente putt, rite Deum colit, Ejusque jam ducit amplis Diva f its pretiosiora. Non ills vulgi gaudet honoribus; Sed cams ipsi Numinia est honors; Pro quo tuendo non recusat Dedecorum genus omne ferre. Quin at relictis ccetibukurbium Mena ejus altum tranavolat tethera, Deique summi, caditumque Colloquio fruitur beato. • Ccelestis ergo jam sapientia Plenus, pencils altior omnibus, Quiescit in Deo, threntum Despiciens hominum tumultu&. Sic prceliantes squore turgido Ventos reducto montis in angulo Miratur, at gaudet procellit procul ease pastor." " To the argument that man finds peace and restoration in the thought of God and heaven," said Tyler, " it may be replied that the thought of God has originally created the evil which it is afterwards called in to heal. When the spirit hath been fancy-sickened by the Tear of hell, it likes to be fancy-gladdened by the hope • .tt ..of theaven. All inferences of deity drawn from feeling Mutt assume the existence of spirit. I think that all phenomena both of mental perception and spiritual impression are easily to be explained on the system or materialism.*That a field of matter, within the eye of man, should be endowed with a capacity of peing ippressed, like a mirror, with the vision cif an external scene, which visiott might be dormant or vivid according to the impulses communicated from the rest of the frame, is a postulate which requires no attributes for matter but those which daily experience perceives and admits, That these visions should be capable of being revivified in a combination produced by their juxtaposition, or their overlapping one another, is an assumption not more violent. Now, if you will mark the operations of your mind, you will find that thoughts are always sensible pictures ; no idea, however abstract, occurs to man in any other form than as a picture of a physical and material scene. It is therefore no improbable conjecture that thought is nothing more than the combination of those pictures which the external world has imprinted upon some organ within the eye possessing the property of renewing these images on future occasions. That this is the actual process of thinking, wilt be seen uport attending to the operation for a few minutes, whereby it will be found that noting but places and persons have occupied the mental observation ; but a ready test of the truth of my remark exists in the fact that we cannot change the thought which is before the mind without changing the focus of sight, which will be indicated by a throb in the eye, and that we can keep thoughts out of the mind by keeping pictures in it, and that we cannot ok distinctly at one object, and think of another. This theory readily &plains the phenomenon of dreaming. It is notorious that men dream when they are not soundly asleep r the brain is then sluggish, •	hot torrid; and attempting to call up the images that lie upon it, or to think, it merely produces a lagging succession of pictures, which, if it were active and awake, would be combined into thoughts. Thus the • IL LI ill / Xi •	Is mentai portion of our nature is the result of the et tion of the surrounding world upon our material frame, and that which is spiritual within us is the offspring of that which was once physical around us."	. I reply,..“ But how much is there in our nature which we do,not acquise! The intellect may be Supposed of mundane growth, and all that goes to make up that moral picture-book, the mind, may have been imprinted by experience. But the heart has vitality and vigour of its own. Place a man in new and interesting cirdumstances, and his thoughts are what they always were : but strange and mighty feelings are always flung forth from the abysses of his soul, full as the swelling tide of the Propontic—forceful as the volleyed waters ,of the Nile-spring : a nature, new even to himself, reveals itself; he is overmastered and swayed despite of himself; there is within him, what he can neither measure in the presen*nor count on for the -future. If there were naught in man but what he learns from the world., how could he impart to the world that supra-mundane interest ; that vivifying hue and life, whicA makes the formal represent the spiritual, and matter sinks beneath its meaning. The poet look's on nature, until, beneath the vesturing glory wherein he robes. thescene, the earthly melts into celestial, and the landscape dims into a formless mirror of the gazer's soul. To the feeling heart, the yellow morning, shadow-cold and still: the eddying roar of purple noon ; the crimson sunset's sleepy light ; the cheerful evening, seraph-eyed, home-dear ; the fading pallor of the lonely night—all are but natural hieroglyphics of passion. If rian be but respiring matter, with no spark of the divine within him, explain to me *the mystery of love; explain the dim memories and the infinite longings which a ray of beauty starts within him ; explain the unbounded sense that quickens into life as'we gaze along the orange splendours of the west, which wane an endless sigh that if full-drawn would rend the frame, Why does there rise and roll within the breast an ocean of excite-/bent when we listen to music, behold the ensigns of • war or look upon the sites of battles, save that a chord is touched within, that vibrates with the infinite. When Twilight, fainting on the breast of Night, sighs forth excess of love in one long burning blush that purples all the air, why doth the lonely gazer's heart heave with oppressive ecstasy or gush with a soft torturing joy, save that to fill the large embrace of Nature, his spirit strives and fails. Where were the grace of life without. the' glow of spirit It is by the successive influences of hope and fear, and love and tears, that we build up our moral being ; and these sensations are the natural zodiac of the soul. What so informs an idiot mass of matter as to make it the emblem and representative of the eternal and the divine, save the vivifying and creative breath of spirit I Man, hurled into the infinite exile of the all-material, lights up his cavern into a temple of glory by the illumination of the fancy of the heart; and arranges the disordered fragments of an unmeaning chaos into monuments of wisdom and altars of divinity by the magnetic virtue of the instinct of the soul. If he cannot melt down all matter into liquid life, he opens great rifts and chasms in the sensible vault around him, wherethrough the ulterior light gleams gloriously. A lonely outcast in the regions of the palpable, he fraternises with the dumb and the surd, not by degrading himself but by elevating them. He call's creation into brotherhood with himself by breathing into all things the breath of expressive being. He gives a tongue to idle sounds, and a countenance to shapeless forms. He makes the lines upon the leaves the subjects of a divine palmistry, and with Egyptian ingenuity, construes the figures which the courses of the sun and the moon mark out upon the sky, into hieroglyphics of power and wisdom. He sympathises with the placid moon that leans over the sky to smile upon his solitude, and communes with the pale stars that tremble in the silence of the infinite. A poet might almost think that the varying phases of sky and earth were appointed only to gladden his sensibility by the embrace of the , beautiful ; for joy and awe and love unutterable are to his .musing thoughts hourly exhaled from matter : yet these impressions are charactered on the universe by the pencil of the spirit. Without the new-assorting harmony of spirit, where were the sweet reltttionships of mother, sister, wife, that flower upon the stalk of life? soft-palmed , domestic loves and not harsh fears, embroidering being with its brightest blossoms? It is by the answer of spirit unto spirit that love springs from man to woman ; it is by a sympathy of soul that the branches of one's consciousness extend within the bosom of another, and.there put forth their softest, fullest leaves—that the heart sparkles with affection as the objects of its love play around it. And it is only by the quick-glancing light of love that the intellect of man Is stirred with fire-like energy. Banish that spirit-born influence, and man becomes a stark, unpliant, marble. visaged savage. He is -unprimered in the dignity of man, who does not know that the worthiest and the sweetest portion of our being, is that which lies beyond our bosom. When, by a leaping glance, two souls have flashed into splendid recognition, thereafter there floats up through the lover's mind a shadowless cloud of crystal brightness, and all his thoughts are roseate with the light; he who has ever loved will never doubt his immortality : and as well the prompting as the experience of the feelings hints this high conclusion. The providence of God hath not so opposed the judgment of the sagacious bead and the longing of the upright heart, that the latter shall not be sanctioned by the former. And the heart longeth for communion with spiritual being. Being, it finds in the breathing matter wherewith it is encompassed, and spirit, it may apprehend in the thoughts of the mind and the pictures of the fancy ; but spiritual being—that which feels as well as is seen; which acts and reacts; which appreciates and responds —can only be furnished by such unmaterial essence as we believe God and his angels to be. The thought and consciousness of pervading spirit, is the breath of the heart's being—the atmosphere which it breathes with a -deep gladness, and without which it pines and suffers. vol.. .	 And all the occupations of the world are grateful in proportion as they supply this craving of the soul. That earthly love wherein the heart delights more than in any mortal joys, is the freest approach to an embrace Qf spirits. When fairrlimbed youth plays in the fresh rose-bowers of gayety and gambol, and his soul is first spoken to through long, dark eyelashes, wherefore doth his spirit tremble within him, save that he is homaging a deep-veiled spirit ' That affection is the parent of the purest joy, and that no life is blest that is not graced with love,' gives proof, then, of the necessity of the existence of spirit to the happiness of man, and what Is indispensable we may conclude exists. If we would know how largely it must enter into the general happiness of man, we have only to remember how sad and cheerless has been the temper of our souls when we have been much absorbed in the concerns of externality. From the drought of materiality, with what joy of heart the mind escapes away to the inward infinite of glorious thoughts and expands therein, bath-freshened and regaled—breathing freely a more healthy freshness than the ocean air. The soul embarking on high thoughts, is wafted on a smooth ocean by a swelling breeze : and that ocean is rapture and that breeze is ecstasy, and the haven of that voyage is the bosom and the peace. of God. No man, indeed, can long be a materialist in feeling and idea : to shut up within himself, his consciousness and sympathy—a necessity induced by that creed—is a suffocation of feeling, a choking up of the vital being in an iron frame of anguish. His head may defend and his tongue proclaim a mechanical world, but his fancy still frames a spiritual universe, and the river of his feelings channels a free outlet through that vent. But the first moment that a conscientious atheist takes home to himself the hearty realisation of his theory, and materialises his imagination, his hopes and his dreams, he will perceive the impossibility of his scheme: he will find himself fearfully jailed up in interminable and maddening spheres of cold, dead matter ; alone in a desert universe, his soul gasping after spirit. The misery of this conscious death, this breathless life, will show him how alien to the breast of man are those dull iron thoughts ; and the first moment of real conviction will be the last of possible belief. The materialist creates a world large enough for the intellect of man, but where his heart can have no room." " If the natural heart," said Mr. Tyler, " so necessarily, apprehends the existence of deity, how does it happen that persons have often been found in savage life, who have neither heard nor conceived the idea of God." " The savage may know of Him by the inward revealing of his spirit, without in fact being aware of his knowledge. He does not think of God above him, but of God within him ; the subjective feeling of his spirit has never become objective to his imagination. Deity is a' presence familiar to his heart though new to his understanding. He is so certain of it that he has not thought of it—so assured of it that he has not remarked it. It is a sentiment which lies at the foundation of all his consciousness ; it is the primal truth of his being ; the first and central apprehension of identity." " Your principles seem to militate against one another," said Tyler. " If the natural wants and instincts of mankind thus forcibly suggest the consolations of religion, might not human ingenuity have discovered them, and thus the establishment of Christianity not be a nodus vindice dignus	If such a work seems diffi- cult, contemplate the genius of Shakspeare, and remember that Nature amid her infinite creations might once evolve an intellect which should be to Shakspeare what Shakspeare is to us." " Of course, a love for man and a desire to elevate his condition could not have been the motive of an imposture which commanded self-denial and privation, and which committed to the hands of men such an instrument of tyranny as the priestly power." " Certainly," replied 'Tyler, "there could have been no other motive to such a scheme than ambition, and the pleasure of asserting the sovereignty of intellect, and enjoying the consciousness of power : the wild delight of ruling and enslaving nations." "If such must be the temper of the founder of Christianity, the impossibility of your suggestion is apparent ; for how could a man of that strength and fierceness of temperament have ever discovered by the expe-, rience of his own spirit, those truths which are the dim yearnings of weakness, and tenderness, and shrinking pain Look at the character of Christ as revealed in action and in utterance, as stamped upon his system, and as displayed in his conduct, and tell me whether such aims of callous ruthlessness could ever have visited the fineness of his gentle thinkings ; whether his heaving tenderness of heart comports with the broad and brawny spirit of a stern impostor. Could the soft-eyed dove of heavenly affection have nestled in a bosom clamped by the iron paw of lion-like ambition? or could wounded peace have dropped its lonely tear, and sighed away its meek anguish, in a breast yell-fretted by the instant baying of the hell-dogs of selfishness I If he had been a cold impostor, such sentiments as he gave utterance to, could as little have been nourished in his bosom, or conceived by his intellect as the odorous jasmine could twine and blow around a pillar of fiery steel. Nothing petrifies the feelings like ambition ; for it combines a rampant love of self with a ferocious hate of others. No beatings of compassion has the heart wherein are caverned out the winding galleried chambers of deceit ; nor lingers the shrinking family of pity in a soul swept by the riotings of the high carnival of scorn. So far from triumphing over and enslaving the weakness of man, his was a spirit hourly alphabeted in the griefs of man, whose daily task' it was to spell out, in lonely anguish, the slow syllables of .mortal wo. Instead of exulting in mad gratifications of successful genius, he walked the earth in peaceful misery and passionless despair, ceaselessly descending the silent, endless staircases of gloom. You confound our knowledge of the triumph of Christianity with the condition and prospect of the case in the lifetime of its founder. When you talk of the delights of empire, and of conscious power, you forget that the personal efforts of Christ failed utterly of success, that not one ray of triumph gilded the edge of all his labours. What self-loving mortal's eye would not have blenched in that hour when all his followers forsook him and fled, and no object met his gaze but a crucifix before him, and an infuriated mob behind him." If the happiness of man," said Tyler, returning to the previous topic of our conversation, " points to the acknowledgment of deity, his power and dignity disown so slavish a conclusion. The doctrine of the Scriptures merges individual strength and independence in a vague generality of idea, and drowns the human spirit in an ocean-bath of fancy and feeling. The sentiments and impressions which you have noticed are not wholly unknown to my experience: for though I have hardened myself in the conflict of the world, and the strife of sterner passions has mostly put to flight the mild emotions of the heart, yet often in the rudest energy of enterprise, and the most absorbing interest of effort, there has come upon me a weakness and an agony which prostrated the spirit before it, and I have wept in helpless anguish for the blind and mysterious want of my nature which .was thus so darkly revealed. Nor has the intimation thus furnished been disregarded. I have tried to live in obedience to such knowledge,—to humble my heart to self-forgetfulness. I have striven to compel my nature to serve and love. But it was impossible. The sickly and unnatural tone it gave to my being was unendurable ; and the glorious fulness of the joy with which I returned to liberty and free defiance told me that best became my spirit. Religion is a disease of the mind; it is the offspring of a morbid heart, and a visionary fancy. Will you call that natural to man with which he never sympathises, save in the hour of his sickness and suffering, and which is so opposite to the demands of health and strength, that no motive has yet been found sufficient to keep him mindful of it in• those seasons? Before that argument is admitted, you I.	* must prove that sickness and disappointment is the proper and intended state of man, and that health and success are errors of his being. If you would know what are really the natural demands and instincts of the , being man, look upon him in that sound and integral condition in which he may most honestly represent his species ; look upon him in the full spring-tide of healthfulness and vigour, and in the fresh morning hour of confidence and joy ; not, when a crawling wretch, he sickens at the light—and in those better moments, when you may most clearly write man upon his brow, he has no need of God—his nature pulses not toward that conclusion. To argue from his state of feebleness and dejection, is as if you were to strike off one's limbs, and reason thence that Providence never meant that man should walk. So convinced am I that the whole scheme of Christian virtue is false, and that the suggestions of that scheme are alien to man's real interests, and destructive of his real greatness, that if I cannot explain the facts of Christianity without resorting to superhuman power, I shall rather believe that the archfoe of mankind has contrived this noxious and enslaving theory, and that the God of the Scriptures is the devil of the universe. Man's truest instinct is to his own greatness; and when he retires within himself, and bids the pulse of selfish vigour throb its fullest, deepest, best, then is he greatest, happiest; and in such blasphemy there is a deep religion, a loftier homage than by prayer or praise. The creature's glory glorifies the God ; and man, defying him that made him, and tossing forth unfettered arms, sets &Hest forth the praise of him he scorns. . The maintenance of our individuality, of the oneness of our spirit, of the self-springing and entire energy of being, exalts the dignity and enjoyment of man ; and this condition may not be where the thoughts are• floating through eternity, and faith is reviving consciousness, through endleis space, and the racy flavour of the' manly spirit is diluted. in its own immortality. In this case, believe me, there is no worthier adoration than to scorn reliance, and no clearer note of honour than the voice which execrates its master. If consciousness of dignity, or the soul's own gratulation to itself, be a sure guide, man feels his strong divinity, of soul most when most selcreliant ; and never does the splendid creature glow more creator-like than when his bosom boils with wild rebellion. The brightness of the moon is fullest when it is most distant from the sun. The Christian attains immortality by appending his spirit to the eternal which is beyond -him, and the Atheist by developing the infinite which is within him ; the one draws God towards him, the other out of him ; the one triumphs over decay by annihilating self in the all-inspiring, and the other by expanding it into the all-comprehensive ; one marks his place in the ocean of eternity as a ridge in the wide ripple of the outmost surge, and the other as the centre whence the waves begin : both are portions of God, but the one is the end, and the other is the beginning. Thus it is that eating of the tree of life, men become as gods ; for God-created man, unereaturing himself, creates himself thereby into a god. Such a bold game is safe enough ; for annihilation is impossible, and no suffering of body or of mind can conquer the intellect and will of man. The theory of feelings which you have set forth cannot be safe, for it opens a wide gate to all the sacred blasphemy of enthusiasm ; and indeed, if you will look over the world, you will discover that almost all who hold the doctrines of the Scriptures, combine with its broad principles some foolish mysticism of their own, for the truth of which they have the same inward and incommunicable • evidence. Where will you fix the limit to the guidance of feeling, if you do not choose to follow it till it makes the rim of your hat as broad as the absurdity of its wearer how will you distinguish between the feeling which is natural, and the feeling which is morbid The foundation on which you rest religion, is, indeed, borne out by the circumstance that beyond professional limits none but women, children, and dotards are the clients Qf devotion ; go where we will, it is still the sickly heart,ror the feeble head, that is the supporter of reli- gion. But I must distrust a notion which requires as a preliminary for its acceptance, that we should stultify that intellect which is the best and only guide to truth which God has given us. You would laugh to scorn a man who in any other affair of life, were to follow any leader but reason ; and it were strange if God had given us a guide which could find out every thing except ,himself." " I must take leave to differ from you," said I, " on the assertion that intellect is always or generally the best or only guide to truth. In questions of morals and politics, in all that investigates the duties and relations of man, I do not think that reason alone is a safe counsellor. I hold that to just perceptions of great trdths, there is necessary a joint action of the moral and the intellectual frame. I hold that when intellect is divorced from moral sympathy, its vigour ,is attenuated and unrobust ; that when it approaches the examination of the principles of religion or policy, unaccompanied by a sound and active heart, its perceptions are meager, its comprehension puny, its conclusions fibrous. So highly do I regard the natural prudence of an upright heart, that I believe in all moral difficulties its suggestions are the wisest, and in all political embarrassments its judgments are the safest ; and, indeed, have no doubt that the feelings might be so educated that their logic in all _matters short of the barrenness of pure science should be unerring. I look upon it that the promptings of a fresh and unsoiled heart are the index and judge of the duties of man ; that the duties of man are correlative with his interests; and that the duties and the interests of man are the staple of all religious, moral, and political sciences. Physical relations are the objects of mere perception, and intellect is sufficient to discern and measure them ; but individual experience and feeling are in some sort the data from which we educe moral truth. The fitness of systems to the dignity, the peace, and the satisfaction of the spirit of man is one great end to be accomplished ; and the spirit must be so nurtured in gentleness and full expansion that it can take appre- ciant cognizance of the truths brought before it. Its tone and temper must be healthy and vivacious, that it may taste and see, gustet et videat, by personal trial how they will be relished by the world at large. This is the point ; feeling enters largely into the nature of men in general, and they require that the principles and schemes which are offered to them should be such as to gratify those feelings ; and how can the statesman or the philanthropist judge of the demands of such feelings unless he cherishes them within his own bosom. It has often happened that stern and impatient minds, in despising feelings, have fatally forgotten to allow for their existence. It never occurred to Napoleon that the nation required some sort of religion, until he once found himself compelled to tears, as through the silence of the summer air, the evening bells of lrienne struck upon his ear, and his youthful days came back upon his heart : he then reasoned that if feeling was so strong in him, its effect on others must be prodigiously great. A sound heart devoted to truth will, though incapable of ratiocination, rarely err in action. A man of that sort will think correctly, though he may not be able to prove his thoughts, and will act sagaciously though he may be unable to tell why he acts so. To think justly is very different from thinking brilliantly, and to think wisely is above either. The first of these is always at the command of a right intention ; the last is inseparable from a right frame of feeling. If you would know how much wiser in their own day, and for their-own purpose, are the children of light than the children of the world, contrast the success of George the Third with the failure of De Rutz, De la Rochefoucauld, or Olivarez. George the Third could have given no logical reason for the glorious and admirable policy which it is known that he suggested as well as maintained. He felt that it was honest, and he knew that it must be wise. The , last conclusion of strenuous reason was the first suggestion of a simple heart, and George easily reached by the instinct of a right moral will, what Burke labori- (Andy attained by the vast enginery of a splendid intellect." '‘‘ I am glad," said Tyler, " that you admit that some sorts of intellect can And out the truth." " When Burke reasoned, ,mind wrought not alone. And it will invariably appear that those authors who have established great and permanent principles in any moral science, have been men of a strong moral constitution and of high moral character; and we cannot help concluding that in that lay the true secret of their strength. A distinction must be taken between those studies which regard the relations of things alone, and those whose subject, direct or collateral, is man ; in the latter, science must always be tempered with conscience. In the one you are, without any prefixed design, to combine certain elements in due proportion, and let them work out what conclusion they may; in The other, you have a definite object to accomplish—the. welfare of man—and the deductions of your science must always be controlled with reference to that end and iri subordination to, that intention. The subject of political economy, as reasoned out by modern philosophers, shows to what we are led by examining with the intellect alone any system of which the interests of man form a part. They have treated the subject as a pure science ; they have taken up the elements and investigated them abstractly—with reference to their capacity and not their use ; their separate magnitude and not their combined and relative importance; in reference to their qualities and not their objects ; their nature and. not their ends. They should have assumed the national prosperity and domestic welfare of gam as the centre from which their inquiries should begin, and tile axis around which their interests should revolve ; and instead of running out the topic of riches into a lank and starved science, they should have seen that to give such elongation and extent to one subject was inconsistent with the subordinate and limited station which it must always hold in the mosaic platform:of man's infinitely varied and complex waits and duties. In place of tra- ding a circumference and fulfilling a circle, they have prolonged a radius and analysed a line. They have made a system of what was barely a science, and up- dertaking to construct a house they have exhausted their means in finishing one of the chambers. In the great cyclopedia of human and worldly interests, the only,article which they have written is that of the sci- ence of wealth. From this difference between the com- pleteness of this science in itself, and its inadequacy to the purpose to which it is applied, arises the diversity of contempt and admiration with which it has been re- garded by different persons. For my part, while I think that the objects of the science are very small, I think that those objects have been treated with singular intelligence arid skill ; and that when the matter is more coolly examined, it wilNbe seen that the modern science of wealth is a small, but very complete, department in the great and noble subject of true POLITICAL ECONOMY. To declare that the puny science now called by .this name fulfils the measure of the social and political wants of man, or was a sound and sufficient scheme of national policy, were as foolish as to assert that salt is the only and adequate food for man, or to insist that a house can stand upon one pillar at the corner. The great Frederick said well that to confide the govetnment to the hands of an economist would soon bring the country to ruin ; for politics is the science of national welfare, and to-attain this mixed result we must combine the thousand minor sciences that treat of his welfare in particulars ; we must weave one interest with another and interlace a score of opposing purposes ; and we must always remember that inquiries are to be cultivated not in proportion to their difficulty or curiosity but to the extent in which they advance the real interests of men. The cause of the error of the economists, to return to the outset of my remark, is that the intellect has grown masterless in construction of the means, while the heart has slumbered in oblivion of the end ; the principles of things and not the interests of men . have been their guide ; they have been • philosophic rather than philanthropic. I have often been carried away by the fascination which' there is in following out the creative principles* of intellectual stiences ; but I have always found that such exclusive devotion to the combinations of the mind, dwarfed the moral being and stunted the moral energies; I have found that it was as unholy as unprofitable ; that not only was power wasted, but'the paslions of pride and selfishness cultivated, and love and considerateness destroyed. For the heart is a thing teeming with life ; if it be exercised in openness it will be clustered with glad fruitage ; if it lie dankly in the shade of a stern intellect it pullulates with poison-knobs. The true remedy for this mad passion of the mind—this fierce intoxication of the intellect—is to commune with the promptings of the moral sense—to listen to the ulterior truths it tells of duty and of destiny—and to be calmed and invigorated by the fresh freedom of a healthy heart. If we bear in mind that evil is but a mistake, and that the oblivion of the suggestions of .feeling in combining the data of moral judgment must certainly conduce to error, we shall see the truth of Milton's observation, that sin sprang from the head of Satan." " As respects those sciences of which the first and chief requisite is, that they should be suited to man's feelings and adapted to be popular," replied Mr. Tyler, " the data and suggestions are certainly to be furnished by the heart of the framer ; but the combination of these data and the execution of these suggestions is the province of reason alone. On that sea, then, the intellectual all-in-all,' sails without a breeze and without maps. In regard of politics and private conduct, the success which you connect with the promptings of a just intention, is true merely by reason of that original and appointed connexion between the purest truth and the highest wisdom which the experience of time has attested by a proverb, and which holds so extensively as to have led many to the conclusion that the principles of morality were the deductions of convenience. But when you go on to make spiritual consciousness MI. ma VON .. ••• •	•••^•I and inward revelation the evidence of religious 'truth, you rest the proof; of your creed upon an assurance which all ;the opposing creeds of Christianity equally possess and appeal .to, and which is the foundation of the faith of the Mohammedans and Brahmin's more satisfactorily than of yours.. When you declare that the happiness which the acceptance of revelation produces, demonstrates its divine origin,—you establish a principle which gives divinity to every day-dream of the youthful heart—to the visions of the Sooffee—and the reveries of neologism and poetry. If, then, you leave this dangerous test, and say that, the general ac-, ceptance of the truths of the Bible among men, establishes its claims, either as evincing their natural and constitutional inclination towards it, or as showing that the protection and support of the Almighty was in its favour, I shall reply that the professors of Islam, or either of the sects of the Hindoo religion are more numerous than the followers of Christ—that the religion of Mohammed was propagated with vast rapidity, and in many instances against the course of conquest—and that in those nations in which the cross has conflicted with the crescent, the former has been wholly subverted. If you refer to the miracles of Jesus, I will say, upon the one hand,, that other miracles which you do not believe are equally well attested with his, and, on the other, that since Christ himself has said, that s there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that, (if it were possible,) they shall deceive the very elect,' that can neither be, nor be designed as, a test of the truth, which belongs equally to the true and the false ; and this Avill bring us to that doctrine of Bishop Warburton, which Coleridge, according to his custom, has plagiarised and disguised, that from among those prophets who have supported their claims by miracles, we must choose him whose doctrines are most Consonant to the nature and conduct of God ; but, in order to escape the contradiction and inconsistency which I discovered in the nature and qualities of God you were obliged to declare VOL. I.	 NOY NO	W a a.. ••••^• a . that we could form no notion of his properties from the material world, and even if we waive this admissions* wilt appear that, while; all miracles must demonstra the attribute of power, any given one must satisfy either the attribute of vengeance or of love, both of which are equally predicates of his nature. Upon what support, then, Christianity will lean I am at a hiss to discover." "Nothing," said I, willing to change the conversation, " is so unprofitable as religious discussion ; and we differ so much as to oar .data that it is not surprising that we do not agree in our conclusions. But if, as you Lave acknowledged, political and social truth is not reached by the intellect alone, but is approached by g two coursers of letherial race,' I cannot help thinking that the prtdominance which in this country is given to mathematical studies in the education of youth, is unfavourable to their best advancement in future life." " I am inclined to doubt," said Mr. Tyler, " the benefit which any discipline in the art of reasoning or any analysis of the processes of demonstration will produce •	upon the mind, because I think that in the business of life, conclusions are linked to premises, rather by the instincts of taste, habit, and a thousand other indices of truth, which become blunted by the strong jealousy of usurping reason. As a means, however, of cultivating the intellect for that high duty which will befal it, I consider mathematics as a study of little value as compared with moral logic, and in fact I think that it is often injurious to the practice of the world. Mathematics is concerned with relations only, and has no regard to the nature and qualities of the things related ; whereas, all the gredt problems in life are the analysis of qualities and the determination of facts. The data of the mathematician are fixed and known ; the business of the politician and moralist is to fix his data, the reasoning upon them is a much smaller matter ; so that the business of life ends where mathematics begins. " Moreover, the axioms of mathematics are not axioms of general truth ; they are derived from the consideration of form and quantity, and it does not follow that what is true of form and.quantity is true Of moral prin. iiiples or of human motives. Whenever yoti can associate forms and quantities, mechanically considered, in any one respect,' in .relations of equality or .predominance, you can associate them if all ; that is, if * is equal to b in one sense, it is equal in all ; in otter word, mathematics contemplates dings hi only one relation. But in morals, things are considered and compared by. their categories or qualities,, whereof each thing has many, according to the view. ind purpose in referencp to which the thing is looked at ; what is afdrtned of a . thing in contemplation of ogre category is nett true of it in respect of another, nor true in respect of that category in reference to all considerations—as, human, divine, individual, social.. These are distindtions which mathematics misses, and if the geometer reasons generally with the habits of his science, he will fall into error. Thus, the position, that two things being equal to a third are equal to one another, may be %Ile universally if we detne equal' with absolute strictness, but, in use, will &instantly lead to the logical fallacy of an undistributed middle term ; and if you will examine the logic of a mathematician you will find the error of a non-distributed medii very often committed. Another mathematical axiom. which is not true in the scope of genera reason is, that all the parts taken together are equal to the whole. This is not always true of physical science, and is generally false in morals. It is not true in chymical combination, and the instinct of a chymist's thbad would be to deny the axiom ; it ft not necessarily true that if two motives separately have given values, those motives united will have a value equal to their ,sum. Davenant has shown that the price of corn is not proportionate to the size of the crop ; and in truth there seems to me no fixed relation between them. I might .name ,to you many other principles of mathematical-science which are not true beyond the boundaries of that science. In truth, mathematics is a composite scil ence, like mechanics and electricity, and not a fundamental exhibition of reason; it is logic applied to the sciences of form and quantity. Analyse any demonstration, and you will find that it consists of certain observations of the senses respecting form, applied by means of the syllogism. The only reasoning in the science is logic ; and therefore I hold it better to go back to pure logic, and imbue the mind with that which is really fundamental. There is danger that the mathematician will mistake the axioms of his science for the principles of reason, and will apply universally what is true only of a particular system. If, however, he discriminates between the general and the partial, and looks in all other sciences for those peculiar axioms which belong to it, and carries from his own study only the skill in applying them which he has there learned, there remains the fear lest the habit of his mind has become so much warped and straitened by contemplating one set of truths, that he cannot freely deal with those which are essentially different. The custom of being conversant w,ith forms and quantities gives to the mind a formal way of regarding and combining principles—a habit of rigid juxtaposition .which the vacillating and unsubstantial elements of moral and mental science will not admit of The great problems of life require the reconcilement of a variety of agents and interests . by a constant system of mutual compensation ; we can very rarely rest in a result furnished with reference to merely one system of causes and consequences. Now, mathematical training induces a man to contemplate one set of data strictly and extensively, but does not qualify him to obtain . a simple result from composite causes. Hence, the mathematician is competent to judge well of the tendency of one principle, or the result of one agent ; but to invent and to examine that which will suit various and opposing requisites, is hardly within the scope of the chalk and the black-board: While the statesman is devising a measure of policy which is 'to gratify the pride of one, the interest of anQether, and the prejudices of a third, the pig-headed algebraist is proving that a different scheme must be framed in order to fulfil completely any one of these objects. . We constantly see results anticipated by the prophetic eye of political wisdom, which strict reason could not educe, and we see schemes of conduct devised by some happy mental instinct, attaining their purpose in the end, which when stated were almost demonstrably inefficient. In these cases there is a system of compensation ; a blunder of too much here is rectified by one of too little there, and the confusion of contending forces works out the directness of a right resultant. The comprehensive generalisation of Napoleon could rarely satisfy with a reason the bigoted scrutiny of that great analyst who carried into the cabinet the doctrine of infmitesimals.' " " One of the advantages which mathematics has in the present time," said I, " is its tendency to check and chill the airy dreams of modern philosophy ; dreams which are harmless enough in religion and metaphysics, but which are of fatal influence in political action. I should regard as a general blessing any thing which would dispel the heated visions of speculative reform, and arrest the progress of revolution ih Europe." " I look upon the spirit of change as already crushed in the old world," he replied, " and the destiny of Europe as settled for the next century in favour of conservatism. A few clear heads and strong hands on the continent have shown what an empty delusion is the spirit of the age; and the governments of those countries seem to be resolving themselves into great military establishments—a form of polity which I very highly approve. In England, there never was the slightest ground for thinking that principles so unnational as those of radiCalism, would eventually succeed ; for, there, patriotism is toryism—for as far as either the head or the heart are concerned, the institutions of the country are the country. In America we have long suffered under a moral absolutism, and our experience has shown that a democracy is merely one of the forms of despotism ; but the facility with which this people is thovedi, in masses affords a fair prospect of the speedy establish. went of a formal monarchy. In fact, nothing is so idle * /s the hope of liberty. Men love despotism. They cannot exist without a thraldom of some kind. In all conditions and under all circumstances they will carve out a tyranny for thernielves. And this delight which men take in fixed' and firm control, arises, in part, from . the native inclination of the heart to serve and look up —in part, from its weakness, and its impatience and hatred of care and responsibility—and in part, from its instinctive fondness for that which is certain, unchanging, and may be calculated upon, and which it may cling to amid the fluctuations of feeling and the vacilla- tions of opinion. In action and in speculation ; in the conflicts of danger and the confusions of opinion ; in science, philosophy, and literature—men habitually look for that ruler who is firm, stable, confident, and composed, and to him they take their oath of fealty. It is the idlest foolery of babyhood to expect equality before the world has been emancipated from the slavery of the passions, and the power of intellect has been effectually abolished. In politics you will always find that the clearest and simplest principle of action is that which draws the mass `toward it, while those rules of conduct which are perplexed or complicated are never cordially embraced. Hence, in ancient establishments, loyalty is likely to be the predominating sentiment, and in times of excitement if you can stave off the first assault of a, restless mop, the people will come forward to the rescue. In democratic constitutions, personal attachment is the easiest and clearest guide, and will probably be the coutrolling power in the nation. A polity whose plan contemplates that the multitude should think, and rea, son, and take intelligent conclusions, must needs fail. For, a nation, a mob, and that class of persons who, being at the head of the latter are at the heart of the former, can very well comprehend one idea, and indeed they never act vigorously except in executing an idea; but they can never put two ideas together." " Your remark is just : and it will generally be found that that party prevails in the commonwealth whose purpose is the simplest, and whose guiding principle Linty MUM Many Lie reillieeil w ititialLU LULU S WEILcqr word. No scheme of policy which embodies more thah a single idea can ever be popular or national, and in truth such a system will rarely be right. Hence, the theories, or complex ideas of the economists are necessarily unpopular; and perhaps this very complexity makes them false, that is—in the only sense in which a polity can be false—unsuited to the nation." " What a splendid nation America would become," said Mr. Tyler, " if some great man were to place himself at the head of the government, whO should have spirit and the power to strike from the body politic the dull cancer of democracy, and revive that soul of manly freedom which the elder statesmen of our country breathed into the constitution, and who could perceive the mighty difference that there is between a great nation, and a great collection of individuals. It is the tendency of democratic principles to destroy nationality, and to reduce society to the dust and powder of individuality;' it is essentially a separating and a selfish principle; its guide is personal, and not public interests ; it is a principle, which if introduced into society, would reduce men to the level of the infamous, the sensual, and the malignant. But if a man of genius and enterprise attains the highest office, and banishes this baneful meanness from the counsels of the country, and gives full developement to the great resources of the nation, we shall behold the noblest spectacle of public greatness that the world has ever seen. I want no change in the principles of the constitution, or in the character of the people or the times ; the republican and revolutionary doctrines of the age, if freely and fairly carried, will, I am persuaded, give a noble result. Men who have drawn their maxims of political reasoning from the states of the old world, have never rightly comprehended this new spirit as exhibited in our land. I admit, that liberal sentiments displaying themselves under the constitutions of hoary monarchies, must work unmingled evil ; for they find nothing connate to their fashion : but in a young, unfettered, ever-moving nation,. the consequences are widely different. The whirlwind that passes through a city, demolishes dwellings ; the storm that sweeps over the moor, only purifies the air. As the ragings of the unchecked sea still have their law, and the blast of the volleying tempest moves through its appointed path, so there is there a reasoning method in the wildest madness of popular freedom. The unbridled license of democracy will work out a conservatism of its own ; and with all their tossings, the waters will still pursue their channel. There is a notion abroad that the extension of the stern and severe habitudes of the age will banish the gentleness of sentiment, and the delicate interest of poetry. Nothing is more false : they will only give them vigour and robustness ; as, of old, from the foaming sea sprang beauty, so from the dashing tumult of politics and trade there will be flashed forth a splendid energy, of poetic interest. Those who have been accustomed to see a principle embodied in one form, may not easily remember it when it appears in others. They who have seen poetry dreaming along the still and crystal-misted valleys, may not recognise her in the gray-robed spirit of the storm. She can gird a sword upon her thigh, as well as slumber in the waving shade. In the trumpet's roar, and in the rush of armies, and in the dust and din of bare and iron effort, there is poetry. Force, and life, and action are the home of her dwelling." " Doubtless, the throes of republican excitement will produce men who will rank with the mighty statesmen of times past. Almost the only specimen that we have yet had of the great men of democracy is Napoleon. I mean, that, while the qualities by which the old race of politicians succeeded were such as could not have been triumphant except in a monarchy, the elements of Napoleon's power were such as a democracy -best furnishes. This much we may foresee, that the great men of our country Must be something more than diplomatists; for the great men of our land must appear at the head of the government, and that is not the proper post for a diplomatist, as that station requires respect-producing energy and dignity, rather than sagacity ; he should be the second man, controlling the first. His place, then, is in a monarchy, and not a republic ; he should be prime minister, and not president. Hence, if the diplomatist of a ruling party ever be seen at the head of the administration, his failure may be confidently predicted." " The source of the popularity of Napoleon," said Tyler, " and of all those who have been the demigods of a multitude, lies in their activity; their restlessness ; in their always doing 'something; in their always exciting and interesting the people ; and constantly affording them something to talk, and think, and dream about. Such high and stir ulating scenes as these men unfold to the nation, produce a mental intoxication. You may observe that vices and passions enslave mankind in proportion to the degree in which they fill the imagination." " There is something," said I, " extremely interesting in the characters of those churchmen who mingled in the politics of Europe from the fourteenth to the seventeenth centuries, and showed to what intense force the human spirit may attain when it throws aside all the distractions of petty passions and interests, and consecrates its energies to one great purpose. Never has the power of the human intellect, or the might of the human will, been more augustly eminent." " The history of those men should teach us that power is the offspring of purpose, and that success attends on resolution. The contemplation of these men placing themselves at the summit of greatness by the might of a stern determination, and carving their way to influence by the resistless force of firm intention, stirs us to the strength of great designs, and nerves our energies with strenuous vigour. We realise in their history the picture which has been drawn of one of those fixed and self-reliant men, whose purposes ne'er feel retiring ebb,' but the compulsive course' of whose unslackening efforts keeps due on till it attains success. He willed it, and became it. He must have worked hard ; and with tools, moreover, of his own invention and fashioning. He waved and whistled off ten thousand strong and importunate temptations; he dashed the dice-box from the jewelled hand of Chance, the cup from Pleasure's, and trod under foot the sorce- ries of each : he ascendvi steadily the precipices of Danger, and looked down with intrepidity from the summit ; he overawed Arrogance with sedateness; he seized by the horn and overleaped low Violence ; and he fairly swung Fortune round.' It is in the power of all men to accomplish the same great end ; for there is nothing in the universe of mind or matter that does not obey the talisman of a strenuous will. To be, we have only to resolve.' Determination creates ability." I cannot but think," said I, " that there are natural differences in the intelligence of different persons. You shall see two brothers going hand in hand through the same circumstances of education and experience, and turning out very differently. There must be a variety in the substances, when the same light makes the ruby red and the sapphire blue." " Sir, you are deceiving yourself by a material simile. The brothers are not exposed to the same circumstances. Upon the mind of one of them there has fallen perhaps, in early youth, some pregnant seed of thought, gathered from sothe casual discourse of graybeards, or caught from some greeting in the streets, and that has dwelt there silently, and taken root and grown into a branching tree of principles and purposes, to which the other is wholly a stranger. If there be any native distinctions in the minds of men, they consist in the different dispositions to be great, and spirits to dare great . things, which they bring with them into life; for I am convinced that there is none in the degrees of their understanding. Byron wrote, at twenty, no better than you or I could have written ; but if he had been naturally gifted with genius, the proportion of his eminence during his minority and after it, must have been the same. To say that his genius was not developed during his boyhood, is idle; for if the power was there it must have shown itself. Suffering, passion, and an intense desire to be great, generated in him the ' faculty divine.' Chatterton had fathomed the source of his own ability when he said, that man is equal to any thing, and that every thing might be accomplished by diligence and abstinence, and that God had .sent his creatures into the world with arms long enough to reach any thing if they would bear the trouble of extending them. That the human character may be transformed, as well as the human intellect advanced, by the force of ardent resolution, may be attested by the history of the Great Frederick, qui, ne facile, se reedit severe ;' by the life of the greater Mirabeau, who passed from extreme susceptibility to rude insensibility." " If so much is within the scope of personal effort to accomplish, there must be some grievous error in the popular systems of education," said	" for such results are but rarely elicited." " In modern schools, there is too much instruction, and too little education. We should educate the intellect, not load the memory. We should inure the mind to exertion, to steadiness of observation and quickness of action ; we should make it Prompt, intrepide a rattaque f send it forth, not with the cumbrous armour of knowledge, but with the stygian dye of inward strength. Boys are recommended to cultivate a taste for reading, and many respectable writers have extolled its benefits : I think nothing is more hurtful. Of reading which is read for the pleasure which it affords, but little is remembered ; and the time is wasted, the judgment enfeebled, the passions stirred without any action upon the intellect, and the fhncy filled with idle, and therefore harmful visions and aspirations. The tone of the mind thus habituated to receive the chewed food of another's thinkings, is weakened ; and the intellectual and moral energies are spent in the unreal regions of memorising fancy. Men, so educated, drone away their days over their books, and sit soaking their intellects with the moist conclusions which others have distilled. The mind, instead of being made strong and agile, is laden till it staggers under the weight ; and on that field where the nimble spirit of a war-horse is required, it appears baggage-burdened with the panniers of a mule. If read- a ing were accompanied by that keen and ever-flashing scrutiny of criticism necessary to make it profitable, but few would be eager to cultivate,it. Book-threading is, I grant, a delicious amusement ; but all serviceable ex ercises are laborious, and most easy Mies injurious. As the matter now goes, I regard reading and revery as the opium of the mind." " Your system," said I, " agrees pretty closely with the advice of Lord Bolingbroke, that men should not be taught what to think, but how to think. By-the-by, I am amazed at the neglect into which the writings of that great philosopher have fallen. If there be a life in wis- dom,, or a soul in wit, or in sentences of magic beauty a force that makee itself to be remembered, his fame should never have passed away from the earth. There was that, both in his character and in his geniut which addressed posterity, rather than the present, and yet his distinction died before him." " It is indeed lamentable to see," said Mr. Tyler, "to how mean an influence of priestly prejudice his renown has been succumbed. His reputation, .Dike his person, has been devoured by worms. But I cordially unite with you in yielding the profoundest homage to his greatness. Of all the lords of mind, none hath a larger state or loftier pace than he. The whole frame of his intellectual exhibition is marked by a grandness of con- ception, a majesty of mind, that is as rare as it is delightful ; the natural high utterances of one that breathes a superior atmosphere of thought to that of ordinary men." " He is the only infidel derider of man," said I, " from whose writings you come exalted, ennobled, and with added vigour in the cause of virtue. The most gene- rous believer might read Bolingbroke, and in the spirit of his sentiments find nothing alien to the high hopings of the Christian heart. He looked on man with the scowl of a demon, and on truth with the smile of a seraph. His intellect was brilliant, though disordered ; splendid, though erring ; bright, but blasted. The gorgeous structure of his philosophy.is riven to thfefbundation ; but genius always commands our sympathy, for, like the temples of the gods, she is venerable even in ruins' I have never read Bolingbroke, without a feeling of deep melancholy; so `sincere and elevated are his aspirations, so Akin and errabund his theories. He often seems to feel the hollowness of the portion which he had chosen, but there abides within him a native nobility of soul, an inherent dignity of character, which forbids the vanity,.of regret or the weakness of a groan. We find in him none of those fretful and deep repinings, whereby Byron hourly showed that the load which he had assumed was too heavy for him, and daily crushed him to the earth ; nor, on the other hand, do we see that either the wild revelry of the feebler children of perdition, or that rigid calmness beneath' which the archapostateweiled from his peers the burning anguish of his soul but rather the sad cheerfulness and vain hopefulness of one that did not feel that all the fault was his. Towards the regions of moral truth he often turns a sightless eye ; but the placid countenance tells that the blindness was not wilful. He reminds me of a benighted fisherman, who, to join his family on shore, makes his way cheerily over the ice with pole and push, and dexterous leap; not seeing that the field which he is crossing is detached from the land, and is drifting away to the solitudes of the midnight sea. Though he shivers by the flickering bonfire of deism, he utters no complaint ; though he wanders through the sands of barren and irremediable error, he never quits the philosophic dignity of the flowing robe and burnished ring. His step along the paths of infidelity is like the tread of Vathek down the stairs of the hall of Eblis ; for though the road is to utter and eternal perdition, the feet of a born king of men are upon it. We might liken him to a banished noble among the frosts of Siberia; noble, though bani.ihed,—though destitute, still dignified ; con- VOL. I.	 , hcious that it* stilt &balled to hie which, none .cifild .degrader him.) and that shone upon breask whith Prior Monarch off."• " In, pronouncing sentence twin the moral course of a man We St. John, we oust, take into accouiit those splendid infirmities of natdre whict ensure for genius, the fame of a conqueror, and the fate of,a victim; that I; irrepressible ardour of spirit, which, while it kiddies the intellect into. a flash* fire, clouds the judgment with the fumes cif excitement, and disturbs the reason viith , its wild impatience. His is a breast which passion has vexed with all its storms. The chords of sensibility have been swept from the highest to the lowest note by the tempbst blasts of suffering. Yet is his mind redolent of much of that fresh purity which grand and gene-roots thoughts bring with them. Throughout all his, nature there are baits of high nobility; there is visible in him none of the languor of a mind washed,,with debauchery, or drenched in the sickly dews' a selfishness ; le vice l'entrainait sans l'asservir.' Much still " sounds man' about him. For the waywardness of his temper and the madness of his conduct, some excuse:,; may be found in the tormenting persecutions and mortifying irritations which harassed his life. Soon after his entrance into public life, he found a youthful rival, whose-character he detested, and whose talents he despised, safely fixed in circumstances to laugh at his impotent ragings, and by force of dull and regular exertion pinning him to the stake of exile and contempt. He found factions using him when they needed his assistance, and turning from him in the day of his calamity. He had early thrown a fatal die, and must through life abide the cast. With energies that demanded action, and a heart which domestic interests could not satisfy, he was doomed to feel in the flush of early manhood, that his day had gone by for ever. Idolising reputation, he lived long years with the sting of a moral attainder tingling in every vein.' When I look upon him strug- •	lk ordcr,' tram a Star still could strike •	ftt • . IF glirig under the xleadlyTpDecious load of gf,pius, sand tilting his stela, perfoece unpteadir,".ovrer: the burning mafle' of statesmanship, at au Onie when lablitics 'swayed the hearts of dies with,the'forsaness. of a principle, and the &your of a passion, I confess that I cannotdiAcover his failings ; and before pave finished his majbstic apologies for his errors:I have already forgotten what they were. it has been his misfortune that there are few persons who have been cEipableeef 'representing him juitly ;fr for those who admired his politics were sure to abhor his philosophy. The eunuch-mind of file younger ' Walpole could as little taste the strong and rasping sense.of the moralist, as his filial tenderness could tolerate the contemptuous energy of the politician. This variety of quality which made his character inconsistent, entered likewise into his genius, and made it copious. 'Ile partook of the best essence, and was tinged with the distigot peculiarities of many of those distinguished persons ,-,by whom he was companioned and courted. He had much of the steel-toothed sagacity of Swift, all of the moral purpose, mild fancy, and untrembling judg- e went of Pope, the severe taste of Atterbury, and the 'rich scholarship of Arbuthnot. I think that his power of sarcasm was by nature both stronger and more delicate,than that of his poetical friend ; but the latter had so educated his mind in bitterness, that he had become, like Lot's wife, a pillar of salt. His sneer is often savage, but it is never the sneer of jealousy or hate ; it seems to proceed from conscientious contempt. More usually he flashes. the stings of satire under the cover of a graceful irony, and like the panegyrist of Harmodius, linking an eneetic purpose with a classic elegance, he wreathes his dagger in myrtle. He unites the full compass of English sense with the pointed vigour of the wits of France. His style has a corresponding breadth and liberality, and lies between the high cathedral style of Milton and the sauntering grace of Addison. He exhibits a fresh and ever-springing life of mind. .Every sentence rays distinct and vivid thought. He is not a formal reasoner; he does not deal in technical argumentation ; he plays no tunes with his ponderous. hammer. He tears down systems with the naked hand of masculine sense ; and like a moral Milo, be rends the aged trunks of philosophic theories with the bare arm of unschooled force. He confronts the gowned professors of philosophy, in the natural ma- jesty of unrobed reason. His manner most felicitously seconds his purpose. His sentences are not rich nor highly.wrought : it is their tone, rather than their struc- ture which gives them their weight. Burke builds up his style with a laborious carpentry beneath your eye, and it is clear that the author is below his character ; he has put on his stage robes, and is mounted on a platform. Bolingbroke's manner, though lofty, is not stilted. His sentences have all the natural joints of lively thought. He wears no pasteboard limbs. In his. paragraphs every' member tells ; in every sentence, and the tiniest part of it, you see the force and shaping of a serious mind. He never writes for display, bbt, in an earnest way, to communicate his thoughts. His stately tread is the accustomed princely step of one who has ever moved on marble, reposed on velvet, and breathed the air of palaces. The grave procession which rests in the spectator's mind as a passing dream of splendour, is the daily condition of his life. There is noting dreamy or scholastic about Bolingbroke: he is always fresh with the hourly interests of life. He examines theories of metaphysics with the closeness and serious- ness of one discussing measures in council. He states his system with the air of a man ready to furnish an estimate, or to embody his sentiments in resolutions. - Without dreaming of comparing the magnificent moral force of the patriot with the merely intellectual vigoui of the partisan, I must say, that as a stylist, as a com- municator of thoughts, I prefer the well-laced sobriety of Bolingbroke to the Persian prodigality of Burke. Bolingbroke shapes his thoughts into ornament; Burke weaves decorations around his. Beauty, with one, is the form of the conception ; with the other, it is the garniture of ite apparel. Bolingbroke's entertainments are like the European banquets on silver plate, where what is showy, is also useful; Burke reminds is of that Asiatic prince who breakfasted his friends on stacks of roses." * CHAPTER XIV. When hope displays its magic art The way of life to clear; The faintest visions of the heart Like solid joys appear. But when that hope dark grief o'erweighs, And cares the soul involve, The solid joys that deck'd our days Like thinnest dreams dissolve. How. I weed all bitterness from out my breast ; It hath no business where thou art a guest. LAMICNT OF TABOO. ON the following morning I called agqin at Mr. Wilson's house to see Emily. The circumstance of my last repulse had dwelt in my mind as a matter of some astonishment, though not of any apprehension. To what motive it was to be assigned I could not guess ; still I could scarcely persuade myself that it arose from intention, or was dictated by any change of feeling on her part towards me. When, therefore, I again presented myself at the door, it was without any doubt that if Emily was really at home I should be admitted at once: My surprise and alarm may easily be conceived when the same answer was again returned to my inquiry, that Miss Wilson was engaged. Determined to know at once whether the refusal was so strongly personal to myself as this repetition of the same reply seemed to indicate, " May I inquire," said I, to the attendant who appeared at the door, " whether you have received explicit orders not to admit me?" o- " I am directed," he replied, " not to admit Mr. Stanley whenever he calls." I had walked several squares before the tumult of indefinite emotions which this unexpected rejection in a quarter where I had dreamed of nothing but kindness and regard, had excited, before I was calm enough to ask myself the meaning of so inexplicable an occurrence. But three days had passed since Emily had received me with good-will and even tenderness, and had herself assured me of the warmth of her feelings towards me. Could it be possible that offended by my previous long neglect, she had chosen again to draw me to her feet only in order to repulse me the more decidedly, and to enjoy the cruel triumph of wounding my wishes and destroying my peace Unworthy as seemed the adoption of so cold a policy, I could not help, in the first bitterness of irritated feeling, imagining that some motive of that kind must be the cause of such signal inconsistency ; but when the soft' and gentle countenance of Emily rose before my calmer mind, in the peaceful image of its sweet benignity, the suggestion dropped from my thoughts as a scheme too alien from her artlessness. I felt convinced that she was labouring under some false impression, arising either from accidental mistake, or occasioned by the wilful misrepresentation of some third person. When I called to mind the circumstances discovered to me by the recent letters of my father, and added to them the occurrences at the sea-shore which had so much surprised me at the time, but now seemed in all probability a part of the same system, it became manifest that I and my family had some dark and formidable enemies, the ruthless ingenuity of whose proceedings it was not easy to fathom. That some portion of this mysterious influence which had acted so fatally upon the fortunes of my father, had been brought to bear on this present matter for the destruction of my plans and the ruin of my happiness, was an opinion which, strange and improbable as in many respects it appeared, I wae.strongly inclined to entertain. The incident by which my con- versatlon with Emily in the. garden had been inter. rupted on the evening when I had first met her, and the impression which it had produced upon me at the time of our intercourse being on that occasion the subject of observation, now occurred to me as confirmatory of the same suspicion. That night there was a large party at the house of a woman of considerable distinction in the fashionable world, and I went to it. I came in late, and having made my way through the gay crowd to a remote part of the rooms, one of the first objects that there met my eyes was the figure of Emily, standing alone between the windows, and leaning thoughtfully on a marble slab. As I looked upon her, the loveliness which seemed visibly to enhaze her presence fluttered my nature with a wildness which nothing could resist. The throb of deep excitement wherewith the might of one earnest thought disturbed my frame, was an unuttered prayer that the rich hope which her existence gave might not be blasted. The fulness with which the memories and dreams which her contemplation had lately spread through my mind had absorbed my whole being, proved to me that the sentiments and impressions which her nearness rayed forth over my mind made my true life, and that the dim sense of consciousness which alone I realised when other influences engrossed me, was a twilight vitality of spirit external to that deeper sphere of joy. Now, one glance at that soul-enthralling countenance and shape caused my feelings to flash back in an instant to that inner strength of being which recent hours had faded into common life. To be flung down from this high interior state of blessedness, and turned away to wander an alien from my better self, was a calamity which I could not think of. That accident or the cold plans of another's interest should thus pluck out so full a promise of all future pleasure of heart and elevation of spirit, was a prospect that stirred my deepest feelings, and impelled me to determine that such a result should be baffled. I approached and spoke to her. She observed my presence a moment or two -before I reached her, and I observed a paleness to pass over her countenance and an embarrassment, to affect her manner, although she did not move from her position. " The ill success," said I, " which has attended two of my visits, compels me to fear that I have in some way forfeited that .kindness which so graciously appointed an hour for receiving it—a fear which has filled me with the deepest uneasiness." " I must be permitted," said she, beginning to move from her place, " to question the sincerity of that uneasiness which has taken so little trouble to prevent the fact which it fears." " I cannot conceive," said I, " to what you have reference. There is certainly some mistake. I am sure that I have done nothing which malice itself could torture to offence." " It is needless," she replied very coldly, " to debate a matter so unambiguous as the circumstances to which I allude. When I say that I am fully aware of recent transactions on your part, I need scarcely add that of course all intercourse between us must be at an end. My only error consisted in confiding in words whose hollowness a disregard prolonged through so long a time abundantly proclaimed. That fault will be best atoned by a return to that previous indifference." - When she had finished she turned towards a neighbouring group, and left me overcome with astonishment. To what events she made allusion I could not conceive. I felt certain that she had been abused by some false stories, and that a brief explanation on my part would dispel the impression which seemed to rest so strongly , upon her But to obtain such a hearing as would suffice to remove the deep influence which circumstance had made upon her seemed impossible, and that candour which any suggestions on my part would require for their appreciation was precluded by the prejudgment which seemed to be so decidedly fixed. I felt besides a kind of desperateness occasioned by the consciousness of the injustice that was done me, and a determination to renounce all attempt at reconciliation. Vexation at myself did the work of resentment against another, and I turned aside with the cruel conviction that all the hopes which I had cherished in this so lovely person were struck down, and dead for ever. I looked towards the quarter where Emily was conversing with some one whom I did not know. The thought that she whose every look and motion fancy had familiarised to my thoughts with such a household custom and acquaintance that all her beauty seemed to be my own, was now estranged to me probably for ever, was one "that worked like madness in my brain." So entwined in all my wishes was her lovely form, and so blended with every memory that flitted before my musings was the image of her smiling face, that she seemed to me a portion of myself; and it appeared against nature that so entire a portion of my very being should be alienated from me, and the " altered eye" of " hard unkindness" substituted for that dreamy glance of sympathy which made her -love appear a fair creation in which my dim and shapeless imaginings of bliss were mirrored by reality. Those looks and smiles which had once flashed upon my secret spirit as hieroglyphies of peculiar passion and the private countersigns of personal appreciation, were now the common language which she used towards others, though full of strange meaning still to me. I had felt as if it was by' some secret convention between us that the changes of countenance were so charged with deep expression, and while they still bore the same significance, and still woke in me the accustomed answering emotion, I could not deem that so deep an inward change had taken place in her, while those things which had stood as the exponents of feeling were unaltered. The happy confidence which gave such character to her whole conduct was gone ; but the want and the weakness had remained on mine. Could I have roused resentment to ward off sensibility, and have armed myself with hate as shield against suffering, Then I might have hardened My soul in misery, and have had comfort. But the perfect gentleness and timid softness of this sweet girl forbade me to cherish one harsh thought. I could not violate the sacred defencelessness of that artless feeling which had so long spread the simple purity of infancy through my thoughts, and reigned in my heart with a childlike holiness of truth. The fact and the satisfaction were taken from my life ; the delusion and the dream still stayed behind. That the change which the sentiments of Emily had undergone did not arise from want of real regard on her part previously, or any natural decline of that affection which had once been warm, was sufficiently apparent from her language and manner. Some inexplicable circumstance had intervened to overthrow her opinion of my character, and force upon her judgment what her heart might still oppose. What that event was, and how the impression which it had left might be xemoved, were more than I could resolve ; but I could still retain the hope that viheh time or accident had removed the barrier of error which now opposed my wishes, I might recover that favourable respect which had been lost, and once more renew the pure attachment which it once sustained. Meanwhile, it was a mystery that puzzled my best ingenuity to discover. CHAPTER XV. There is no power Of sweetness in the softest tones of love, Or in the whisper of reposing peace, Can glad the heart with half that strength of joy Which the shrill ringings of the trumpet's blast Spread through the frame. BAUM& Herein we will forget the world awhile, And merrily will laugh one hour away Of life's dull calendar. COLERIDGE. THE strange disappearance of the letter from beneath my pillow, which I have spoken of In a preceding chapter, occasioned me the greatest surprise and uneasiness. To believe that any one had entered my chamber in the night and possessed himself of any thing in such a situation as it was, seemed impossible. No one could possibly conjecture where I would place the letter, if he were even aware of my possessing it ; and if accident or reason should guide him to the very spot, I could not conceive how any one could enter and leave my chamber and the house, without either creating alarm or leaving behind any trace of his passage. The doors and windows of all the rooms stood on the following morning as they had been left; nothing furnished the slightest evidence that there had been any intrusion within the walls of the house. When I called to mind, however, what my father had said of the incredible ingenuity and daring of those who were specially interested in obtaining this doqument, and what I myielf had discovered of their knowledge and disposition, I was strongly persuaded that it was to their acts and efforts that the loss of this paper was to be attributed. The conversation which I had overheard in the hall of the club-house evinced their acquaintance with the possessor of the letter, as well as their determination to obtain it by some means or other. That a band of resolute and scheming men could, under these circumstances, have entered my apartment and removed what they pleased without disturbance or detection was by no means impossible. By reasoning boldly upon the probabilities of the case, they might have been directed to the place where the valued writing was actually concealed ; for I had chosen the protection which almost any man would have selected who would not trust to the safety of his drawer or his writing-desk. In the utter absence, at least, of any probable mode of accounting for the disappearance of the letter, I was compelled to conclude that those unknown persons whose interference had been so much dreaded and deprecated, had obtained the instrument which of all others it was desirable to conceal from them. The conviction that these formidable adventurers were near me, and that I had been thus far the victim of their designs, roused in me a resolution to grapple with their mysterious strength, and frustrate, if it were possible, their lawless enterprise. The task seemed full of difficulty and danger ; but. I could fight with She same weapons which they did, and could start a spirit to oppose them, as stern and deadly as their own. If intellect and a cool heart gave them their power, I had the same sources of counsel and energy, and was not afraid to meet them firmly, mind to mind. If they could intrigue, I could scheme too; and could fling as -thick dangers and clogs about their path as they could throw around mine. l& " be bold, be bold, and every where, be bold," had been the motto of their triumphs, I had as brave a temper as their own; if, " be not, too bold" had been their shield from peril, I could forge as strong an armour of caution as they could do. At all events, vol.. I.	 exertion and the strife of contest are grateful to the manly mind. They rouse within the soul a depth and strength of life which testify how cognate with its true character is the stirring force of action. In the rage of passion, and the roar of danger, the thrilling spirit tastes its keenest joy. The club-house suggested itself to me as the place where I should be most likely to hear or see something which might throw light upon the character of that company of persons who were united in those plans which I was anxious to overthrow. The two persons whom I had overheard in the entry seemed to reside in some part of the building, and so far as I could judge from their allusions, were not without connexion with some of that party whom I was now going to meet. I entertained the hope that by some means or other I might obtain such information as would aid my future plans. Accordingly in the evening I walked down in the direction which Tyler and myself had previously taken. I was not certain of the precise situation of the house, and I passed through a number of streets which were wholly new to me, before I discovered the proper route. After wandering about for a good while I at length came upon the narrow street in which the old building was placed. I lingered for a few minutes in the entry and around the door with the hope of meeting some one of the persons of whose kindly intentions towards myself I had been the unsuspected discoverer on the former occasion. No one, however, was visible, and I presently walked into the library of the club, of which I had taken a hasty glance on my last visit. Two or three men of gentlemanly appearance were reading in different parts of the room. The collection of books, so far as I could judge from a rapid inspection, appeared to be a good one and the whole apartment bore marks of refinement and taste. I passed through several chambers which seemed to be designed for rdvate sitting-rooms, and were arranged with neatness and elegance. There were several rooms on the same floor with which there was no communication, and a number of passages which ran from the extreme parts of the building, and gave an air of intricacy to its plan which somewhat surprised me. It did not appear to me that the arrange. ment of the place was that which the ostensible use of the pile required. Finding nothing to detain me longer there, I strolled into the supper-room. A number of persons were sitting at a well supplied table, and my entrance was greeted at once by Seward and two or three more of my friends. Mr. Tyler appeared to be doing his duty with the glasses at the top of the table. It was as inviting a picture of joviality as I ever saw. I am one of those who divide their pains from their pleasures by a pretty distinct interval, and never suffer the long shadow of coming trouble to darken the brightness of the present scene. It is the unfortunate condition of ordinary being that when gayety and grief partake our life, it is the former conquers. When the circumstances which are around us differ in their complexion from the spirit which is within us, the latter sometimes triumphs, and is sometimes quelled. But the• law which regulates the difference, makes not for our comfort ; for a gloomy temper flings a dusky colouring over the fairest state, and the gayety of the stoutest heart struggles dimly and is soon. depressed, amid scenes of suffering. To reverse this rule, were to attain the true law of life. Could we teach our mood to yield in pleasure and prevail in grief, content might always sit upon our crest. Acting on this philosophy at least in halves, I threw aside all disturbing recollections, and gave myself up to the enjoyment of the hour. •	A chair was placed for me at the table by one of the smallest and blackest men I ever beheld. His head and countenance resembled one of those shrivelled pieces of fruit that one sees in the spring on an apple-tree which has survived the winter. That man," said Seward, who was sitting opposite to me and had been enjoying my surprise at the little object, is like the substance from which Raymond Sully first made alcohol, nigrum nigrius nigro,' and realises a peculiar phrase of Suetonius ne(g)ronior ne(g)ro.' His soul is in a sad case. It has what Fuller would call & a small diocese to attend to.' Truly life is to him what Pope declares it is to all '•• a dark abode.' One would think that his spirit had sinned in some pre- existing state an had been condemned to a life-long suit of mourning in this world. He is embodied' darkness ; he furnishes a perfect example of an expression which Bentley would have inserted in Milton.' inspissated gloom.' A printer might make use of him to point a sentence; we employ him to .point a jest. By-the-by, have you heard the last rumour t" "No; and should not credit it if I had. Troubled times, like these, are like, a lawyer's office, full of Reports." " My good fellow, there is often more credulity in disbelieving than.in, believing. As to what I speak of they say that poor Tom 'Ferran is done up, cracking the claw of a lobster—dipped—cleaned -out—or what you will." " The deuce!" " The deuce? No, his own folly rather. Poor Tom was one of those that, like a corked bottle, are lightest at the top. Such people, like an old piano, are only fit to be practised on. In spite of hie silliness it seems he lived in great credit. Poor fellow ! he'll be as hot-pressed as a new English volume of poems to live now." " He may assume the valiant air of Pistol and ex- claim—'' base is the slave that pays	If that wont do he may run, like a Scotch. novel. In truth he is only accomplishing his destiny ; he was always empty and noisy as a drum, and now like it he is beaten. But he was a well-tempered man, and I sincerely pity him." " Pardon me : he was well-natured, but not well-tempered. Good nature is from birth; good temper is the result of sense, and that' he never had. The only evidence of intellect that he furnished was in being tolerably moral and I believe thoroughly upright : for it takes more sense to make an honest man than the world geherally thinks. It was the easiness of his spirit that made Tom usually inferior to his companions ; for if two men even of equal talent live much together, the worst-natured will commonly get the superiority." " This is a century of inventions, and perhaps he will find out some new mode of living upon nothing. He has at least the resort of a wife, sad refuge,' I admit, from the storms of fate ;' but still, as Etherege says, a wife is no curse when she brings the blessing of a good estate with her !' " " Mrs. — is, I believe, one of his largest creditors, and perhaps she might take personal security for her debt. But for my part, I am of Othello's thinking,ithough I would make no exception : I would not my unhorsed five condition Put into circumscription and confine, For the sea's worth." Dos est uxaria lites,' says Ovid,; g strife and tumult are the dowry that comes with a wife,' says the learned mocking-bird of our drama. I would decline any such offer in the spirit of Demosthenes when turned away from the too expensive Lais, and • I would not buy repentance at the expense of my liberty.' By-the-by, Metellus in a speech in Gelling has reconciled the opposite arguments about marriage in the neatest manner possible: ita natura tradidit ut, nec cum illis satis commode, nec sine illis ullo modo vivi possit.' Still, as that Greek epigram which was the last learned utterance of the tongue of Porson, remarks—every body declaims against marriage and every body gets married : and I -should look as blank as the verse of Montgomery or the cartridge of Moore if you should some day cast these sayings in my teeth as I approach you wife-armed with some simpering Beatrice. It would require the valour of a flattered coward to look you in the face." " It is a melancholy but a common thing, to see a man possessed of all the rich advantages which Ferraro had from nature, going through life with scarce an hour of real happiness. Rich, high-born, and mingling in * the be* society, he has passed through pleasure and has passed by it, and has missed it The social distinction of his family imposed upon, him an unprofitable routine of ceremony, which is only tolerable as long as it is new. The lives of the great resemble those large-paper copies of books which are prepared for their use; though splendid in appearance, the- greater portion of the page is blank. Their life has no vicissitudes, and its unvarying satisfaction never permits to-look forward to that occasion which is always fair and on which Fortune always sits and smiles.-.the next. But in truth, every man's condition has in it some accursed poison. bone that vitiates all the rest. Life is like a China-cup and at the fall it broke." " Payne!" said an Englishman, from the other side of the table, " have you read Brougham's last speech r " No, but if you are sure it is his last, I will. I took my leave of him when he took up the vindication of that woman who first showed the world) the meaning of that Shakspeareen phrase that puzzled Hamlet, a cmobled queen.' I doubt not, that in that speech he well merited the title of old Sylvester, silver-tongued.' But what have you in all your records of eloquence that can outweigh the well-brained sentences of Webster! What a towering monument of mind is he.! He may be termed a real statesman, according to' the legal definition of the reality—' permanent, fixed and immovable, which cannot be carried out of its place.' " " Ay ! overbearing, persuasive, and impracticable,' There are many things in this world that are of great value and no use ; and Webster is one of them. Every man has his fault, and greatness is his." " England has secured an eternal supremacy for her great statesmen over those of other nations by the wise device of enrolling them in the peerage. Men may talk as they will of the majesty of intellect or the kingliness of character ; there is no greatness which the world will always and inevitably acknowledge save that of title. The moment a man is inscriptus quietis ordinibus of .the, nobility, he assumes in the instinctive and ineradicable admission of all men, a superior nature. He may be a parvenu and a brute, but his name clothes him,- in the imagination of all, with the splendour and homage of feudal dignity, and Tudor and Plantagenet , float before our eyes." " True: and in England that natural fealty always prevails over the opposing popularity of democratic aspirants and enables the balance of contest to be on the side of the aristocracy ; so that we have generally the satisfaction of being, at least, enslaved by a gentleman. Britain's feudality has saved her from the political Fetichism of America, whose devotion only bows to beasts. It has also kept us from the leaden tyranny of wealth, which has here set up its altars unopposed.temples were the banks of Greece ; banks are the temples of America." " Of England and America we must say, magis pares quam similes.' The system of civility which prevails in the two countries is different. England is a lake, calm and dignified, shaded by willows and fringed with daisies. America is a river, that dashes along, often muddy and always agitated, rarely graceful and never dignified, but in this wild and free impetuosity an emblem of all that is bold, and daring and 'spirited in man, and sometimes too not failing in its unfettered energy to work out a high and earnest beauty. Our greatness lies in that enterprise and activity of which we can give no vouchers in the drawing-room. The Englishman walks in a narrow sphere, and in that sphere excels what his colonist can do in any one of the departments in which he figures. The American is a flambeau that stinks in a drawing-room, but burns admirably on the race-ground : the Englishman is a wax-candle, elegantly bright in its station, but which, if moved out of its place, flares desperately." " Old--, who has just come back from England, has been letting off a number of his queer epigrams about that nation. I see that he has also printed something." " Those must admire -- who think with Heraclitus that the excellence of the soul consists in its aridity ; for he is abundantly dry. His sudcess seems to illustrate what the lawyers term the policy of assurance,' for only by everdaring could his moderate talents have placed him where he stands." " Do you know him, Payne ?" " Not personally, but I have read his pamphlets." " Your judgment then is scarcely impartial; for it is always the disposition of man to overestimate those whom he knows, and underestimate those whom he does not. He has sense, but not the sense to show it. How different is his sobriety from the character of his brother—a toper that would coin his blood for drams.' His defect is that in cultivating diligently some of the deeper sciences, he has neglected the knowledge of those lighter subjects, a familiarity with which men are hourly called on to exhibit. Hence with a fund of wisdom he passes often for a fool, for men naturally judge of merit by that test with which they are most conversant, and which therefore occupies the largest space in their own minds. Thus Kenelm Digby founds his lofty admiration of Spenser on the knowledge of Astrology which one of his stanzas displays ; and Belden extols Ovid as a great Canon Lawyer. While Nash despises a Lord Mayer of his time because he could not write a blank verse, and Kean sneers the Duke of Wellington into insignificance with Pooh t he is no judge of acting.' It is the misfortune of —, that his temper is too critical, his mental scrutiny too severe. He is ever transmuting pleasure into annoyance by the keenness of his analysis, and crushing the gayety of careless joy to shell out the kernel of moral wisdom that lies within it. Like the pedant in Faust, whilst we enjoy, he reasons of enjoyment.' But he misses the condition, while in pursuit of its livery; and to such poor moralists the men of mirth may justly say in the better philosophy of natural feeling, Wiser things may wise men say, But we are wiser far than they." Meanwhile an earnest controversy was raging on my right hand between the Englishman of whom I have spoken and a diminutive Frenchman who sat opposite to him, on that everlasting subject of national difference, the character of Napoleon, The latter proved that his favourite commander triumphed at Mont St. Jean in every respect except gaining the victory, while hiS antagonist reproached the Emperor with cowardice in surviving the last hour of his glory. Upon this point I was referred to as arbitrator—a mode of arriving at truth of which the English seem particularly fond. " I confess," said I, to the despiser of France, " that I cannot agree with you in thinking Napoleon's life at St. Helena undignified or degrading : on the contrary I think that his conduct during that residence was the only thing by which he showed that he was truly great. In the bustle of action, animation, passion and the excitement of enterprise will elevate men ; in- the repose of peace and unemployment, strength of character alone can sustain them. That he who, as the poet says of Corinth, had seen Glory in all her beauty, all her forms, should live contented, happy, and with a healthy mind in the naked solitude of a lonely island, and never be so truly dignified as in that hopeless exile, is the loftiest exhibition of nobility of nature with which P am acquainted." " I wonder," cried Seward, " that the nations should be so enraged at Napoleon's policy. He was only a practical philosopher, illustrating Pythagoras's definition of beauty--the reduction of many into one. No doubt they tel monstrous lies about him ; indeed, when a man becomes eminent, truth resigns her office of biographer; and lies have so tripping an adaptation to the nimble tongue that he who is talked of much, will be talked of falsely. If you wish a novelty to be believed, state it in an imprdbable form ; never repeat wonders, till they believe them." . " Bow remarkable a circumstance that one man should devastate Europe in such a manner, and one other man should redeem it. In the trinity of the Hindus the creator is accompanied by a destroyer and a preserver ; and it rarely happens in action or in truth, that a Seva spirit is let forth upon the earth without an antagonist Vishnoo appearing at the same time. When the fame of the liberator of Europe in these latter days shall be posthumous, his true greatness will be seen. There is no shield from the shafts of detraction save the marble of the tomb. Shakspeare's remark applies rather to effects than to reputation." " It is odd how solicitous a man always is to avoid the appearance of contradicting Shakspeare. We refer to him as to Nature herself, and never think of allowing for the existence of inaccuracy in his copies, I presume there is not an observation in his plays that can be shown to be incorrect." " If Shakspeare had written nothing else than Falstaff's Whose mare's dead ?' and Dogberry's assumption of dignity because he had had losses,' they would have been enough to stamp him as the most accurate observer that ever lived. I wonder, by-the-by, that we have no edition of his works with aesthetical and critical notes ; none but antiquarians have as yet illustrated him, or old pedp.nts who inststed on the unities as if a play had been An- Mate in joint-tenancy. Instead of looking for his originals in real life, they have been burrowing where,' in Saxo Grammaticus, the rude forefathers of the . Hamlet" sleep.' What study of chronicles could illustrate Lear." ' Lear !" said the little Freachman beside me, who had been occasionally interposifig a question, when the conversation went beyond his depth, " Lear who was Lear V' ' Lear, my dear fellow," replied Seward, ' was an old fool who pulled off his boots at night beforp he saw whether he could find his slippers. His sagacious daughters drew the neatskin on their owd legs and kicked the old fellow into the fields." 	• " I should like to see illustrations of Shakspeare's characters drawn from history. The conduct of Harley, Earl of Oxford, might throw light upon the indeci- sion of Hamlet. An inquiry into Shakspeare's choice of subjects from history might be curious ; as, to discover what difference of taste led Scott to select Richard, and Shakspeare to take John.") " Scott loved the romantic ; Shakspeare's sympathy was with the familiar, the domestic, the universal. The conduct of a story was Scott's forte; the illustration of it, Shakspeare's. Scott in the vigour of his genius was too prodigal of his power, for the benefit of his reputa- tion—in his poems, the incidents injure the impression of the poetry, and the verse conceals the course of the incidents. A wary author would have presented but one object of admiration at a time. When Protogenes in his picture of a reposing Satyr, had painted a par- tridge with so much skill that all Greece was in rap- tures with it, the self-denying painter wisely erased the picture of the bird, because it withdrew the attention from the principal figure. The same uncalled-for richness of phrase has detracted from Coleridge's character as a philosopher." " In metaphysics, the redundance you allude to, is a - more positive evil than in narrative. Ornamental turns of style obstruct the way to truth. A moralist poising periods, is like a wrestler fighting in a cloak. In Cole- yidge I suspect this garniture concealed weakness. He did little to extend science ; though he showed us a new method of thinking old thoughts. Indeed a good disposition of common materials is as valuable as the creation of new substances. It is only in the arrange- ment of its particles that the diamond differs from'the coal. Coleridge certainly leaves much that is good behind,him, and while the remark of Augustin is mournfully correct • mortuis authoribus veneni, scelerata tamen eorum doctrina non moritur,' it is equally tribe that the , help that is done by good man to virtue is as immortal as the principle it defends. Coleridge was 'almost the only one of his contemporaries that showed a disposition to revive the architectural sentences, the pala- tial paragraphs of that sera of our literatore, in which Coke said that • a good style, and fair falling sentences never were at so high a price as now they bear.' The tendency of taste is very different now ; it inclines to a direct, downright and even brusque manner. In all the technical parade of Coleridge, there is far less elf the real staple of thought, than in the pedestrian plainness of Lamb, a man whose incomparable richness of humour, seems to hide from popular appreciation the uncommon strength and soundness of his intellect." "When Elia first fell into my hands, I could not help exclaiming in the words of Ben Jonson, Blest be the hoar wherein I bought this book; His studies happy that composed the book ; And the man fortunate that sold the book Charles and his sister were a brace of angels. Byron's poetry is unearthly but very worldly ; Lamb's prose unworldly but very earthly, and it is that smell of mortality,' that Fronde-like trembling, clinging to the familiar things of nature that makes him so dear a friend to us. lie has none of the high-mounting wings of in-- spired verse that lift beyond the fears of humanity till we forget our low condition, Sub pedibus que vidit nubes et sidera Daphnis; nor in his contentedness with this week-day world does he insist with the Epicurean rapacity of the noble poet on seizing all the richest delights that life can furnish, and crying with the tempter, The heads of parrots, tongues of nightingales, The brains of peacocks, and of ostriches, Shall be our food: and, could we get the phceniz, Though nature lost tier kind, she were our dish. As the cold winds sweep uncomfortably without, it is satisfaction enough for him that he is sheltered in the house of life, even though his seat is by the kitchen fire. He can warm himself by the embers of existence, and on his wooden bench, brimful of moral,' can find on his hearth the hues of heaven." " Keats, I think, would have done great things in poetry if he had lived. Bellerophon's Pegasus would have soared to Heaven, but, a wasp stung him, and the rider was flung ; Keats's Pegasus was so stung by •	Southey or Milman.' If the latter did it, I would give him Lord Coke's rebuke; • It becometh not divines to be of a fiery and salamandrine spirit.' " " Keats might have improved, but I have little confidence in the strength of, the stalk that puts forth its blossoms so soon. Every housekeeper can tell you that the fruit that is destined to be preserved. ripens late. The class of writers to which he belonged undertook to revive the language of the days of Elizabeth; but the moralist who had contemplated their principles and conduct might have said to them in the words of Phavorinus, vive moribus prmteritis; loquere verbis prmsentibus.' " " Talking of Shakspeare, there is a remark of Falstaff which, after lying neglected since the time it was uttered, has received a remarkable conformation in these latter days. In enumerating the grounds of the Prince's attachment to Poins, the hoary jester says,- Because their legs are both of a bigness ; and he plays at quoits well ; and jumps upon joint-stools ; and swears with a good grace.' There has not been, perhaps, in all Europe, enough familiarity with men to observe how likely the accomplishment of ingenious profanity was to interest and be valued in a boon companion, especially by one whose early years had not led him to be familiar with such exhibitions. Delhi Abdalla, Capitan Pasba, and afterwards Vizier of the present intelligent and strong-minded Sultan Mahmoud was a boatman on the Bosphorus, who attracted the notice of the sultan while rowing in his barge, by the strange oaths which he swore, and an odd manner of shputing them aut. Upon these grounds, though so illiterate that he could not VOL. I.	 write, he was put at the head of the fleet, and raised high in the favour of his master." " Egad ! if such are the benefits of blasphemy, it will be worth while to cultivate the habit of exclaiming a little profanely,' as Lamb expresses it. Most of the English kings have had their peculiar figureS of Imprecation,' by which they might be known, as a knight by his device in battle: and a catalogue of royal and noble swearers from the sublime profanity of 'the conqueror, to the ' oath referential' or sentimental swearing' of the witty companion of the Regent would contain some great names. Canning talked of a work on the subject, in his warm youth, and it would have been well if he had found lime to execute the project in a cursory manner. The Conqueror, who was great, even in his blasphemies, and of whom the Saxon Chronicle says finely that though very stern and also hot, he loved the tall deer as if he were their father,' swore commonly by the splendour of God,' and on great state occasions g by the resurrection and the throne of God' Rufus contented himself with I the foot of St. Luke,' and Richard preferred the ardour of the Apostle Paul.' The Queen of the lion port,'—it is odd, by-the-by, that Fath All Shah, the king of Persia, applied the expression, lion-hearted, to Queen Elizabeth in a conversation with Sir Harford Jones,—frequently invoked the different members of the Divine person, and when Cherbtiry was presented to her, he says that when she spoke to him 'she swore by her usual oath.' The piddling profanity of James minced down the matter into what D'Israeli calls a harmless expletive,' of which numerous examples will be found in Ben Jonson and his contemporaries. An analysis of the transformations of the supreme name from the uds' of James to the egad' of Dryden and his biographer, by an Orford or a D'Israeli would be amusing. Jonson makes it an article of praise in Fastidious that he swears tersely and with great variety.' Scarcely an anecdote of Lord Thurlow has come down to us that has not an aath in it, and I presume the Chancellor resorted to it on the principle on which Fuseli himself, no mean craftsman in the art, advised his wife when she was vexed to try swearing, because she had no idea what a relief it was.' One of the old biblical commentators adduces even King David as a professor of the science,•for by a small change in the punctuation he is made to swear very appropriately that the Lord made the sun to rule; by day ! and the moon ; by night :',In the Yakkun Nattannawa, a Cingalese Devil hymn. the Devil Oddy is described as dwelling in desolate temples and in solitary houses, and constantly swearing.' " After this conversation had continued for some time longer, I began to feel wearied, and finding that nothing seemed likely to be elicited whioh concerned the principal object which had brought me there, I rose from my seat to return home. As I passed round the end of the table,I observed Mr. Tyler earnestly engaged in debating with a man in .spectacles, about the colour of Falernian wine; which his antagonist held, according to the prevailing opinion, to have been black, while he, in support of a theory of his own, maintained that it was green. He seemed so earnestly engaged in the controversy as not to see me, so I went out without saluting him. In the hall, between the supper-room and the street door, there was a pair of folding doors, which usually stood open, but which, as I issued from the former apartment, I perceived on this occasion, to be closed. Upon trying the handle, I found that the door was locked. A servant came out immediately from a side-room, and pointing to a narrow door on the opposite side, told me that the hall was always fastened up at that hour, but that I would reach the street through the passage which he indicated. I accordingly turned into the narrow entry, and the pullied door which led to it, swung heavily too behind me. There was a lamp hanging from the ceiling, and when I had reached the middle of the floor, I observed that there was no issue from the opposite side, but that the place was terminated by a bare wall. Imagining that I had misunderstood the di- rection Which had been given to me, and had got into the wrong apartment, I turned to retrace my steps. At that moment the light was extinguished, and I was left in complete darkness. At the same instant a noise was audible above, and I found myself rising gradually through the air, I at first mistrusted the evidence of my feelings, that the floor was actually ascending, and stretched out my hand towards the wall, to assure myself of the fact! I found that it was as I suspected. The rapidity of the motion began also to increase. What was the object of this treachery, and what would be the issue of it, I could not conjecture. Doubtless an encounter with those persons of whose character I had already received some fearful tokens, was at hand. To make any call for assistance was idle ; for aught that I knew, every individual in the house was joined with these desperadoes. I therefore remained quiet, and collected • I called into readiness all the energies of my mind and temper, and stood prepared 'For any event of peril or perplexity that might befhl. The velocity of my 'movement had so much increased, that I thought I could not be far from the top of the building, when the ascent was suddenly arrested. Without moving, I waited the result. Sit down," whispered a voice in my ear. I did so, and each of my arms was immediately seized and held firmly but without uncomfortable tightness. The place was profoundly dark, but I heard a faint rustling and breathing which convinced me that was in a room with a number of persons. In a few moments I perceived a very faint light in the apartment which appeared to be transmitted through a screen which stood at some distance in front of me, and which I presumed separated me from those for whose purposes I was brought to this place. As I sat in this position, various low sounds reached my ear, but no one spoke. The noise, which was slight and occasional, and would perhaps have been inaudible to one whose senses were less keenly excited and attentive than my own, resembled that of persons sitting at a table and leaning at intervals upon it, and touching it slightly. Some communication appeared to be going on, but no voice even in a whisper was to be heard. Presently a door on the opposite side of the room was opened with suddenness, and closed in the same authoritative manner, and a footstep, as of some one treading with firmness and decision, was audible. " Accursed blunderers !" said a voice, which was apparently that of the person who had come in, in a very suppressed but angry tone, which the perfect silence of the place and the unusual susceptibility of my faculties, alone, enabled me to hear, " think you that he carries his papers with him I And of what use will his life be without them I Let him go at once." Some confusion seemed to prevail in consequence of this interruption, and I heard repeatedly the sound of something written very rapidly, and passed, as I conjectured between the parties. This mute debate continued for a few minutes, and then a smart blow was struck by a hand upon the board as if some one was enforcing, by that emphatic gesture, the opinion which he maintained, and an individual rose upon his feet. Something was presently whispered in the ear of one of the persons by whom I was guarded, which seemed to have been conveyed by a messenger from the council, although I did not bear the sound of any one crossing the room. " Rise," said the same man who had before addressed me; and I accordingly stood up. Immediately the platform on which I stood began to descend as it had risen ; and in a few moments I reached the ground. In an instant the lamp again hung burning from the ceiling and the whole of the narrow apartment appeared precisely as I had left it. The place was perfectly silent, and no trace was visible of the agency by which I had been elevated to that mysterious chamber. I walked towards the door by which I had entered and it opened with facility. So quiet and natural did every thing seem, that I could not help feeling * as if I had been dreaming, and as Wall the objects which I had witnessed were the unreal shapes of distempered sleep. I thought of returning into the supper-room, to see if any thing could be found there ,to aid me in exploring the singular circumstances by which these recent incidents had been effected. The door, however, was locked, though the gay voices of those whom I had left there were still audible. Among the rest I distinguished the tones of Mr.. Tyler, still occupied with his antiquarian controversy. The opposite door, which had been closed when I was last there, was now wide open and fastened back as had been accustomed to see it. I had no idea of leaving the building until I had discovered something which might throw light upon the events which had happened, and assist to prepare me for any future difficulties into which I might be thrown with these persons. As, however, it was probable that I was then observed, and any effort at that moment to elude or beguile the scrutiny of my enemies, I left the house directly with the intention of returning when the lapse of a few hours should afford a prospect of acting more successfully. I accordingly gained the street and walked briskly on In the direction of my residence. I remained at home till about midnight, and then having accoutred myself in a heavy, large-collared overcoat, and capacious, broad-rimmed hat, I sallied out to see what discovery I could make connected with the adventures I had just passed through. A hackney-coach brought me to the entrance of the street in which the house I sought was situated; I then got out and dismissing the vehicle, 'walked along till I reached the building. The street-door was fastened, and I feared that I had too long 'deferred my attempt. I thought, however, that I would walk round to the other side, which I had observed was approached by another street In the rear, in hopes of finding an entrance on that quarter. Passing, therefore, through a narrow alley which intersected the street in which I was, I reached the back garden wall, in the centre of which was a gate. I tried the latch and found that it was open. I paused for a moment to meditate upon the wisdom of pursuing the attempt which was before me, and to plan the course which would pursue. The place was possessed by those to whose passions or interest, if detected, the sacrifice of my life would be a trifling con- sideration. And, indeed, I ran great risk of incurring a recognition which was so likely to prove fatal. On the other hand my curiosity to learn something of the mysterious brotherhood which inhabited these wails was extremely great. And as well my interest as my feelings, prompted me to the enterprise ; for the paper which had disappeared so strangely from my chamber, had probably been taken by some of this party, and I felt anxious to obtain a clue which might lead to its recovery, for its value to me was of course very great. These motives, as well as a strong ambition to conquer, if possible, the ruthless enmity by which the interests of my house were opposed, and disappoint the schemes that now seemed triumphing in their malignity, urged •me to proceed. The danger I regarded lightly, for there is something in the presence of peril which rouses a boldness and confidence within the breast which makes toil and risk a pleasure rather than a dread. I trusted that the resources of a fertile mind, and a heart which knew not what it was to fear, would carry me safely through the difficulties which were before me: and I, therefore, opened the gate and went into the yard. There was a small door in the rear of the louse which was open, and a man was standing within it. Assuming a bold Ind indifferent air I walked directly up to him, but before I had reached the steps he left his position and came towards me. I happened to remember the name of one of the persons who had been spoken of by the men whom I had overheard on a former evening in the vestibule of this building; and as the chances were considerably in favour of its successful employment, I determined to make use of it. " Good night !" said I, in a careless tone, as I brushed past him, and I endeavoured to imitate the tones of one of the speakers on the occasion alluded to, for his voice still lingered in my ear ; " this is a clever 'disguise: by-the-by, is Morton still in the room ?" For aught that I knew, the person himself, whom I addressed, was Morton; but I had nothing else to do than to throw myself upon the probability, and trust to its supporting me. Fortunately it succeeded entirely. The person eyed me for a moment rather dubiously, and then replying in a refined and courteous tone that he believed he was, he continued his course and left the yard. I did not expect to encounter in that place, any but men of a coarse and common aspect ; but both the appearance and the speech of this man' convinced me that he was a gentleman. When I bad reached the entry which issued in the small door I have spoken of, I paused to listen if there was any one else in the passages by whom my presence might he discovered. But I heard no one; the whole building seemed to be silent. I' made my way cautiously along and with as little noise as it was possible. Passing one or • two rooms, which from their silence and darkness, appeared to be unoccupied, I presently reached a large intersecting hall occupied by a broad and massive flight of steps, and dimly lighted by a lamp which hung in the centre. Leaning upon the large carved post which terminated the balusters, I again stopped to try to ascertain in what part of the building were the persons for whose whereabout I was seeking. I thought that if I could approach their place of assembling, or put myself in a situation to overhear their conversation as they were going out, I might possess myself of such knowledge as would be valuable for the future. I ascended the stairs slowly and noiselessly, until I reached the entry of the second story in which they terminated. The rooms which stood near the head of the flight appeared to be as deserted as those which I had left below. Crossing the direction of the staircase was a long passage, into which several apartments opened, and at either end of which was a flight of stairs leading to higher parts of the building; a lamp near the middle of this hall flung a faint ,light along it. I walked forward a little distance through one of the arms of this entry, and had gone about half-way to the termination of it when I heard the sound of some one coming out of one of the chambers in an upper story, and descending to pass apparently through the place where I stood. The house, as I have already said, had the air of having once been the abode of wealth and magnificence, and the entry which was a noble arch was flanked on both sides by large pairs of columns standing with a small interval between them which was about large enough to conceal the figure of a man. into one of these niches I hastily threw myself to find a hiding-place until the person who was approaching should be past. He ,came along with rather a hurried step, and walking directly in front -of my position reached the staircase and descending it left the house. I was standing sideways in my narrow concealment, and being unable to turn without fear of arresting attention, I did not see the figure of the man. Supposing that there might be other persons coming from the same place, I remained for a few minutes where I was, without moving. In a little while a number of men issued from the same room, so far as I could judge, from which the first had come, and descended in the same direction. Leaning forward from my lurking-place, I perceived a bright and increasing light in the quarter in which they were, and I inferred that some of them were bearing lamps or candles. The size of the columns by which I was protected, was barely sufficient to hide me from view even under the duskiness that was then shading the entry, and I could scarcely hope to escape observation, when so many were passing in so strong a light. I thought of rushing from my concealment and escaping from the building before they reached the staircase, but as I was about to put this intention in effect, I caught sight of the figure of one of the persons already turning on to the landing which gave a view of the passage in which I was. I drew hastily back, and pressing as closely as possible against the wall I awaited the result. Aye they drew near, so strong a glare was thrown upon the walls and pillars that I felt that my detection was inevitable, and I stood in that shrinking dread in which one hides from that danger which is yet absent although certain. When the company had arrived almost in front of my position, they paused: feeling certain that they saw some part of my dress, although they were yet beyond my own range of sight, I was about to come out and reveal myself to them. To my infinite relief one of the party opened a door which was in the wall of the entry, and all of them went into the room. As the door was closed and bolted I saw that it was of extraordinary thickness, and I heard the sound of an inner door also fastened. There was no keyhole or other aperture by which it might be possible to bear what was said within. I remained for a few minutes in my shelter pondering what course would be best to pursue, and making up my mind that I must retire without accomplishing the object for which I had come, when my attention. was arrested by the footstep of some one coming very quietly and slowly up the great staircase from the lower hall. I listened, and the sound was so stealthy that it was clear that the person, whoever he might be, was anxious to escape notice, and was perhaps engaged in much the same undertaking as had brought me there. I drew back, and remained motionless. The stranger came along the entry noiselessly and deliberately, and as he passed me I perceived that he was closely muffled in a long cloak. There was something in his appearance which, combined no doubt with the association which several incidents led me to form between the persons connected with this house and those whom I had encountered at the sea-shore, that I thought resembled the man who had passed me under the trees on that occasion. But if that conjecture were correct, what could cause in this place the concealment which he manifestly courted, or could induce him to assume, as my own case led me to suppose, the office of a spy upon his own fellows? When he came to the door at which the others had entered he paused a moment before it, and placing his ear close to it listened for some time. He then moved a few steps and laid his finger upon a part of the panelling of the wall. A tall but narrow door flew open, sufficiently large to admit a single person ; he went in and closed it behind him. This extraordinary conduct surprised me extremely. The proceedings of those who were connected with this establishment resembled the operations of magic rather than of human power. But it was impossible to render any explanation of the incident which I had just witnessed. If the individual who had thus secreted himself was a friend and fellow of those who were in the room, why did he bear the character and court the concealment of a Spy If he was an enemy, how did he possess the intimate knowledge which he displayed with the construction of the building While these thoughts were passing through my mind, the panelled door again opened, and the same person came out and fastened the spring as before. Without a moment's delay he moved quickly along the entry, and, descending the stairs, left the house. As soon as I had satisfied myself that he was out of hearing, I walked towards the private door which he had closed, in the hope that I should be able to enter it and, as I presumed that he had done, observe the proceedings of those who were within. As I laid my finger upon the door to feel for the spring, I heard the bolt of the great inner door withdrawn, and a sound of voices which indicated that the company were coming out. I passed my hand in nervous embarrassment several times over the spot where I had seen the other lay his touch, without being able to find the spot. The door, which had been unbolted swung heavily open, and the handle of the outer door was raised, while I yet stood exposed in the ineffectual attempt to enter the secret door. The ponderous iron bar grated roughly as it moved back,, and I saw that but one escape was left me, in right. I darted along the entry, and reached the stairs. When I had turned round the angle in the wall I stopped for an instant to ascertain whether I had been seen or heard. No sound whatever was discernible be.. hind me. I walked back a few steps so as to command a view of the passage, and found, that the large door was still unopened. Encouraged by this indication that the intention of the• party to leave the apartment had been changed, and inexpressibly and madly eager to save one chance of discovering something of their proceedings, I ran back to the place where I had been endeavouring to admit myself into the secret room in the wall, and again passed my hand along the channelled mouldings to find the catch which had baffled me before. The roar of the iron bar again smote fearfully in my ear, just as I touched the important spot and the small door flew open. I hastily threw myself within and drew the door behind me at the same instant that the heavy oak of the adjoining one moved upon its hinges. The noise of the closing spring was merged in that of the opening hinges. The place in which I found myself was a passage channelled out in the thick wall that bounded the entry. Judging from the light which was visible at a little distance along, part of the partition which separated it from the apartment within, was transparent. Fearful, however, of being heard through the thin division which on both skies shielded me, I did not move. The per-Sons who were just issuing as I entered this conceal. ment, all left the room excepting two, who still remained behind. When the door was closed some conversation ensued which I was enabled to hear with great distinct.. ness. " Well, Williams," said one of them, " what do you think of this matter " " I have no doubt," replied the other, "that jealousy of superior talents is the cause of most of this excitement against Harold. Still, it must be admitted that there is some ground for the charge of treachery, and I think that the matter was very properly taken up. But I fear very much that injustice will be done. I suspect that Morton's design is to make the decision or our meeting to-morrow night final upon the subject of Harold's guilt, and as we have sworn not to 'communicate to him any knowledge of the proposed assembly, I suspect that he will be condemned unheard." " I tell you what," said the other negligently, after a pause, during which he appeared to have been engaged in writing and had stopped to mend his pen, " if we kill Harold, we shall destroy the very centre and support of our society, and I shall take my leave of it pretty soon. No man can counsel and control like him. None can command the respect which he enforces. Morton can talk, but he lacks the strength and depth of character which long habits of action alone can give." " As to Harold's behaviour about Stanley," remarked his companion, " proceeding from friendship and kindness to him, the notion is ridiculous. There is as much of such feeling in his breast as there is milk in a male tiger.' And that he should be playing falsely with him is equally improbable, for that would occasion less benefit than the opposite course Would ensure, and would farther expose him to great danger. If Stanley is a rogue, why does not Harold initiate him into this company " " True enough. At what hour did they say we meet to-morrow ?" " Ten precisely : and in the upper room of the old central hall." "There is one thing," resumed the first, after a considerable pause, " which makes me disinclined to proceed against Harold ; and that is the danger we are in from the Stanleys. If that matter were settled, and all alarm banished, we might amuse ourselves by putting Harold to death for not settling it sooner : but if we lose his aid, or if he by that superhuman sagacity which belongs to him, discover our plot and abandon us, I fear we are gone. • I know no means of obtaining the papers which are in possession of young Stanley, and if that cannot be done, our only safety consists in put- VOL. .	 ting both the old and the young one to sleep in the same grave ;,—a clumsy mode, that, of doing the business ;" and the speaker went on with his writing. " That whole matter must be settled to-morrow night, and our system of proceeding ascertained. There is not much time to lose ; for after the specimen young Stanley had this evening of our way of managing affairs, he will be very apt to try if he cannot give us some trouble. It would be droll if he applied to the police : ha! ha! Certainly Harold was right, it was a great blunder to haul him up before the council ; but I am not so sure it was exactly as wise to let him go. It was Morton's idea, that of questioning him,—and Harold's vehemence in insisting on sending him away, has raised this storm of virtue in his,breast. I hardly know myself why Harold opposed his death. I do not see what harm it could have done." In possessing myself of a knowledge of the position and policy of these men and their party, I had gained what I wanted, and the tone of this conversation was scarcely so agreeable as to induce me to stay any longer in the place where I was. I therefore touched the spring of the little door which had admitted me, and stepped out into the entry. Every thing there was quiet, and I made my way out of the house without loss of time. I walked rapidly home, and did not feel myself fully at ease till I found myself within my own walls. Throwing myself on a chair before the fire I breathed for the first time with freedom ; and availing myself of the opportunity of making my calm reflections upon the events which had befallen me, I reviewed all the incidents which that busy evening had disclosed. The first circumstance which arrested my curiosity and perplexed my thoughts was, that the letters which my father had sent me, and which I had missed from under my pillow as I have already described, did not appear to be in the possession of those persons whose safety they principally concerned, and whom I had so reasonably suspected. This I inferred, both from the words which I thad heard in the darkness of my con- 