is known as the "Coast Survey ;" and Uncle Sam has spent his money like water in building breakwaters and sea-walls—and in ascertaining the depth of water, the position of bars, shoals, and dangerous places, along the coast of our Eastern states. But as for the West, she has been put off, with the pulling up of a snag or two occasionally, while millions were spent upon the Pea-patch and Rip-raps. The commerce of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers is immense, attended annually as we all know, with vast losses of life and property ; many of which might be avoided, were Western river navigators, before undertaking trips in doubtful stages of the river, furnished with proper registries of the water on the principal shoals. A tithe of what is annually expended on the " Coast Survey" would suffice for the entire West. We do not speak of deepening the shoals, but of ascertaining the depth of water on them at every stage of the river—and of referring these, to common water marks placed at the towns on its banks ;—thus, when the water at Cincinnati is so many feet deep—simultaneous observations along the river, would show the depth of water on the shoals and bars above and below. When there is a rise of one foot in the deep still water of Cincinnati, the corresponding rise on the Maysville, Portsmouth, or Guyandotte shoals, may be two, three, or four inches ; depending, of course, on the rapidity and capacity of the current ;—but a series of observations conducted for one season, would accurately establish the ratio between the water on the shoals and at the principal cities. Then, by planting a pillar graduated according to these observations, each town could have a watermarla by which boat owners and masters might read daylv, and to the fraction of an inch, the water on the shoals to be crossed on their trip ; the boat's draft and destination could then be regulated accordingly. By this means, all those losses which annually result from vessels attempting tripe extending beyond shoals that are too shallow, would he avoided ;— at every town; the boat could read the water on the shoals to be crossed. Nor would this be all, the papers, in time of low water, would publish, for the benefit of New-Orleans, and other places which would be beyond the influence of the " water-marks," the depth of the principal shoals, with a remark showing whether the river was rising or failing, or stationary. Thus, a boat at Z^ew-Orleans, would know with certainty before leaving, and to the nearest time, what water was on the shoals of the Ohio. We merely make this suggestion---gearing it to our Western friends for further discussion and for AGITATION. While the proof slips of the foregoing were yet in cur hands, we eeceived a copy of the annual Report or the Secretary of the Navy. THE measure of this Report, is the Mississippi Boat-Yard. We are happy to find the views already taken by us, supported and strengthened by the official organ of the Navy. The Secretary's reasoning on the sub ject, is so much more conclusive and forcibly urged than our own,—his cases so well put, and the Q. E. D. so clearly established by him, that we cannot resist the temptation of calling him in to our aid. " It is believed that there is not in the world, an equal amount of commercial and agricultural interest belonging to any one country, so much at the mercy of the most inconsiderable maritime force as is that of the Gulf of Mexico. Not only the States which lie immediately on that water, but all those whose streams enter into it, including the vast and fertile region of the Mississippi and its tributary waters, make this their chief channel of commerce. And we may properly add, also, no inconsiderable amount in the article of cotton sent from Texas by means of the Red river, and paying tribute to our commercial agencies in its transit through our territory. Cotton is the principal material of our trade, both foreign and domestic ; it probably constitutes three-fourths of our exports in its raw and manufactured states. Taking the year ending on the st August, , it is found that the whole cotton crop amounted to ,, bales ; of which ,, were shipped from the ports of the Gulf of Mexico. Of this crop , bales were exported to foreign countries ; and of these exports, , bales were from the ports of that Gulf. Thus it may be assumed that two-thirds of the most valuable article of our commerce, foreign and coastwise, is shipped in the ports of the Gulf of Mexico. " In other articles, the productions of the West, the proportion, although perhaps not quite so large, I is yet large enough to give peculiar importance to the Gulf of Mexico. The tobacco, the iron, the lead, the sugar, the hemp, and the provisions of that great and rich region, (and in a few years we may add also its coal,) find their way to market chiefly through that single channel. These already form no inconsiderable part of the entire exports of our country; and will, after no long process of time, enter still more largely into our trade, both foreign and domestic. Without pretending to perfect accuracy, we may safely assume that not less than two-thirds of the entire commerce of our country, exclusive of the whale fisheries, passes through the Gulf of Mexico ; and we may, witk even more safety, assume that this proportion will increase from year to year, with the increase of the population and wealth of our Western States. "It is to be borne in mind that nearly all this valuable trade is carried on through the Gulf of Florida. I had the honor to present my views upon this subject, in a. report which I made to the Senate, during the last session of Congress, but which was not acted on by that body. I respectfully refer to that document, as containing many suggestions connected with this inquiry, which I believe to be not wholly unworthy of public attention. I repeat here, only the well known fact, that in consequence of the strength of the Gulf stream and trade winds there is virtually no passage for our trade eastward, on the south side of the island of Cuba. It must, of necessity, pass through the Gulf of Florida, a narrow strait which can be effectually blockaded by two active steam frigates, and probably by one. Even if a trading vessel should pass such a blockading force in the night, it would have but one path open to it for a great distance, and might of course be pursued with a certainty of being overtaken. It would not enjoy even the ordinary chances of a vessel escaping from a blockaded port into a wide and open sea. " The facts to which I have thus adverted, show a striking peculiarity in our condition. The greatest portion of our commerce, confined to a single channel of some hundreds of miles, is exposed in a peculiar manner to any enemy having possession of the sea ; and—what would render our condition still worse—if we be without a naval force, that commerce may be annihilated at a cost which would not be felt by any tenth-rate maritime power ! "If these views be correct, I am at a loss to perceive what portion of our country is not interested in them. To the States bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, and to all those which use the Mississippi, river as a channel of trade, the subject is of a deep and daily increasing interest. So far as their prosperity depends on the outlet of the various productions of their country, they have but a single question to decide : Is, or is not, their commerce worth the cost of a naval power adequate to protect it It has no other protection, and it cannot have any other until its present channels shall be changed. "To these considerations are to be added, others growing out of the peculiar character of our Government and institutions, and the exposed condition of our lake and sea coast. On these points I can only repeat the suggestions offered in my last report. No country in the world has agreater interest than ours to guard itself against invasion. If we are destined to see again the smoke of an enemy's camp, we should at least be careful not to allow it to ascend from our own soil. It is in all respects better for us, to repel an enemy from our coast, than to subdue him after he has landed upon our shores. To do this, we must cherish our naval power,—not as the institution of a day or of a year, —not as a subject which we can lay aside, and take up again whenever we please, as the policy or the caprice of the moment may dictate ;—but as a great and permanent institution, worthy of a great people, and demanding the grave attention of Government ; an institution resting upon a wise system, and worthy to be maintained in the spirit of a liberal, comprehensive and stable policy. "These considerations forbid us to fall so far in the rear of other nations, and of the age in which minion of the seas. A. commerce, such as ours, demands the protection of an adequate naval force ; our people, scattered all over the world, have a right to require the occasional presence of our flag, to give assurance to all nations that their country has both the will and the power to protect them. Our position among the nations, is such as to leave' us without excuse, if we voluntarily strip ourselves of a power which all other nations are anxious to grasp. Our forms of government and municipal institutions, suggest that a naval force is our safest and perhaps our only, defence ; and as an additional recommendation, of no small weight, the expenditure which this defence requires, is to be made chiefly among our own people, encouraging their enterprise, invigorating their industry, and calling out the abundant and now almost hidden resources of our country. " In another part of the report, the Secretary informs Congress, that he has laid up the Mississippi steamer, and intends to lay up the Missouri also, because the- are found to be too expensive. These splendid follies were conceived and built under the old system. It cost upwards of a million of dollars to build the two ; and, to prove -what was known before, i. e. that they were like the Indian's gun and " cost more than they come to," it has cost we are afraid to say how much more. We will give the data—and the reader may make the calculation for himself : one of them, consumed when at sea, tons of coal a day—this coal was received at Pensacola at—say $ the ton—then there were the wear and tear of Boat, Boilers and Engines—the cost of six or eight Engineers, of thirty or forty firemen, and a. crew of one hundred or two hundred men, for each vessel. Be the sum total what it may—but it is enormous—the cost of these two steamers—which, unless we have war soon, will prove worse than useless, amounts to a sum, that would be more than sufficient to found on the Mississippi, a boat-yard—a foundry—a rope walk—a school for engineers—and to build and equip a fleet of proper sized steamers sufficient to answer all our yresent purposes in the Gulf of Mexico. Verily, what can our Western friends be made of, that they do not assert their claims upon the Navy See what the Report says further—" The subject, next in importance, is the establishment of a navy-yard on the largest scale, on the waters of the lower Mississippi. I had the honor to give my views upon this subject, in a report to the Senate, of the st of January last. Respectfully referring to that report, I forbear to repeat at large the suggestions which it offers. I will only say that the object which I have in view, is to afford whatever facilities such an establishment can afford, to the industry of the whole valley of the Mississippi, now cut off in a great degree, from its we live, as to surrender our due share of the do- due share in the supplies of the Navy. The iron of that region would find there a ready and conve of necessity must be, applied to 'uses far more nient market ; an extensive rope-walk—a neces valuable to the people who pay them, than the mosary appendage to such a navy-yard—would pre ney itself;' and that, far from being an oppressive sent a constant demand for hemp ; the provisions of burden, they will operate as a measure of positive the West, now worth little or nothing, from their relief." superabundance, would find a ready purchaser at A boat-yard on the Mississippi is required for the fair prices. Every branch of Western industry general welfare ; though it would operate, collaterwould feel, directly or indirectly, the influence of ally, more immediately for the protection of Wessuch an establishment ; while the Navy itself, tern produce, and for the promotion of 'Western inwould be secure of abundant and cheap supplies, terests. If, therefore, it be a tax—let the West be sufficiently convenient to the ocean, and yet per saddled with its burthens. If it be a benefit, let her fectly safe from the attacks of any enemy.	enjoy it. " It is by arrangements of this sort," continues The West—by which we include the Gulf-states, the Secretary—"that the Navy can be made to re and those watered by the streams of the Missisturn to the country twice the wealth which is ex sippi—should be charged with the steam portion of pended in support of it. The wealth of a nation the Navy, as the East is with canvass portion. does not consist in the quantity of gold which it may The East is the place for ships and sailors, the have in its Treasury ; the economy of a nation is West for steam-boats, and watertnen—and the West not shown only in the smallness of its expenditures. should insist, as a matter of policy, right, and jusIt is rich, only in proportion as its people are rich; tice, on supplying the Navy with steamers, and with and it is economical only so far as it applies the every thing relating thereto—from the truck down public money to uses more valuable to the people to the keelson, and from a packing thread up to an who pay it, than the money itself. This is but engine. When one of our men-of-war is in the another name for national thrift ; but it is the only Gulf of Mexico or at Pensacola, she does not consense in which national economy is of any value. sider herself at home. Her home is at Boston, or Nine tenths of the appropriations to the Navy are New-York, or some of the Atlantic ports; their paid back to our own people for materials, labor, crews all belong there. The home of our steamers, and subsistence. It is thus put into circulation, should be in the Gulf, and the Mississippi ; and paying debts, supplying wants, and sustaining credit. their crews should hail from those borders. It is Every dollar thus employed increases the lax-pay for the protection of their homes, that a Gulf squading ability of the people to twice that amount; and ron would be required in war ;—and it is for the this tax-paying ability is the true wealth of the na protection of their labor and their produce, that a tion. The expenses of the Navy, therefore, are Gulf Squadron is required in peace ;—and who not to be considered a dead tax upon the Treasury. should be charged with the defence of Southern and They not only go back and circulate among our Western fire-sides, in war—of Southern and Wesown people, but, unlike most other expenditures of tern merchandise, in peace, but Southern and Westhe Government, they give employment to industry, tern people In the last war, we had no Squadron encouragement to enterprise, and patronage to ge in the Gulf: the Western boys had to march down nius. They perform, to a great extent, the office to its shores, and drive back the enemy. Entrust of a protective tariff, in developing and bringing to them now, the Gulf defences,—let them build into use various sources of our national wealth, par and man their own war-steamers, and no foe would ticularly in copper, iron, hemp, provisions, and coal. ever again have the hardihood to cross the seas for The effect of even a small disbursement, so made, the " beauty and booty" of a Southern city. upon the public prosperity and comfort, is much As there is a school for Military Engineers at more important and extensive than the first view of West-Point in the East, there should be a school it would lead us to suppose. I am far from saying too for Naval Engineers in the West. Connected that taxes ought to be levied merely for the pur with the workshops of the Western boat-yard, there pose of so expending them. No tax should be im should be a school of Engineers. If more were posed, direct or indirect, which is not required for graduated there, than are required for our public the legitimate and proper uses of Government. steamers in times of peace, they would be ready for But if a necessity for the tax can be shown to exist ; the excess in time of war-.—and in the mean time if the purposes to which it is proposed to apply it, would, in their private capacity, find useful and valuaclearly appear to be useful and profitable to the ble occupation on the river boats. They would country far beyond the measure of the tax itself ; raise the standard of qualifications for Western it ceases to he a burden, and is relieved from all river navigation—and prevent that destruction of fair objection. Such in my opinion, is canphati life and property there, which legislation has tried cally the case with almost the entire appropriation in vain to arrest. to naval service. It is confidently believed that	This is a matter of deep interest to the West, such appropriations, as liberal as any convenient and we call upon the press and the people there, to auil proper rerenue system will allow, may be, and stand up for their rights. THE NEW YEAR GREETINGS This is the season of gratulation among friends—of good will among all. The first salutation of the day from the merry lips of thousands, has been " a happy new year." And to each and all of our patrons we wish many and happy returns of the season. The new year is the time for reflecting upon the past, of making fresh resolves, and of renewing our calculations upon the future. This is an indulgence which the Messenger craves of those to whom it has made its monthly visits in their appointed regularity. It has now completed its seventh year. Daring this long and tedious time, we have struggled hard, rising up early and sitting down late, to make our Journal worthy of itself and its readers. Within this period, time and death have done their work—they have taken away many a staunch and valued friend; but time and a kind Providence have raised up others no less loyal and true. We too have had our trials—Planters and farmers have had, with the returning seasons, their seed time and harvest—but we have had one long seed time of seven years. Our harvest is now ripe for the reaper; and we shall put in the sickle, to gather in and garner up the fruits of our Jacob-like term of labor ; for within the last year our subscription list has increased largely, and fresh numbers are daily lengthening it out. Never has the circulation of the Messenger been as great as it now is. To continue in the favor which we have won, we shall relax no muscle, spare no exertion ; and the better to serve those who are friends, we are now purging our subscription list of all those who patronize us only in name. The making up of each No. for the mail, after it comes from the binder, occupies alone nearly two weeks. The obligations between proprietor and subscriber are reciprocal, and an Editor can afford, no more than any other laborer, to work for nothing and fmdhimselff—we have tried it, and find it a hard task. In our literary cater-ship, we have marketed at home and abroad ; we have gathered up from the sea and the land, and have monthly spread before our readers the costly banquet; and we can now promise our readers a corps of correspondents in the old world and the new—such as no paper in the land can boast of. Onward is our course. If the Messenger has been good in times past, it shall be better in times to come. It has never had such a list of correspondents as those whose pens are now engaged to adorn its pages. To them, and not to us, belongs the honor of its excellencies ; to them, we feel and ac knowledge our obligations. And in returning our thanks for past favors, we beg them to have patience with us sometimes, and bear with any seeming neglect of their contributions. We have bushels of these now before us ; and every mail adds fresh supplies to the pile. With the growing popularity of the Messenger, such has been the increase of contributors, that it would now keep one person constantly employed to overhaul MSS. and do nothing else. Therefore, if those who offer us pieces in a difficult hand, be occasionally kept a. month or two in suspense as to their fate, they should not complain. Ours is now the oldest magazine of its kind on this side of Mason & Dixon's line. Near eight years ago, when we undertook its publication, we entered upon the work with many forebodings, for there was much to dishearten and to deter. The trial had been often made, and as often failed; until the belief became almost universal, that no publication of the kind could flourish or live at the South—and, though yet in the days of its youth, the Messenger is now the Patriarch of Southern Lite. rature. It is the oldest magazine of the kind at the South. Within its time, it has seen kindred attempts spring up and perish. But, thanks to its patrons and friends, it has now taken root from one end of the Union to the other—and is beyond the vicissitudes of the times. It is the first successful diagram, by which the problem of Southern Literature has been demonstrated. And, as such, we send it out to the world each time of publication with livelier feelings of pride and pleasure. The subscriber has formerly given to the public, favorable notices of the Messenger, which have appeared in the different journals of the day. He deems it proper, from time to time, to continue that course, as due both to his patrons and himself. He has accordingly prepared this supplement, and herewith presents to the public. at one view, the following highly complimentary articles in relation to the September and October numbers of his periodical. We publish the following second letter from our correspondent upon the subject of Huddesford's " Lines to My Wife," &c. with great pleasure ; and shall subjoin a few remarks, which may be better understood after the letter is read. We must add here, however, in order that the letter itself (or a part of it,) may be better understood, that having found out (by the help of a literary friend,) the real name of our correspondent, we took the liberty to write to him	, (as he would say,) and this is his answer : We received with gratitude, and published with pleasure and approbation, the article, the name of which is prefixed to this. We admired the chaste style, the classic taste and the gentle. manly spirit that characterize it. But we do not assent to all its doctrines, nor concur in its criticisms. Yet we gladly surrendered, for the time, our chair of office, to a writer so well qualified to fill it. He has acquitted himself well ; but in resuming our function we feel it our duty to mark an error or tWo in his performance. He will know us to be incapable ol departing from the example of candid courtesy which helms set us, and will take-our censures in the same spirit in which his own were conceived. His criticisms are addressed first to the style, and then to the matter of his author. We shall take him up in the same order ; and in doing this we are happy to say that to his style we have nothing to object. It is clear, simple, chaste and graceful. The author of that review can ask no higher praise than this. It will Certainly satisfy all his canons of criticism in regard to mere style. It satisfies ours too. We might say more (though not truly), which might sound like praise to some, but in his, and in our estimation, it would not be praise. But we feel ourselves bound to throw our. iEgis over Mr. Dew ; and though in doing this we may leave bare the heel of Achilles, yet we doubt not to screen him securely from any shaft which may be aimed at the head or the heart. We therefore at once avow that there are some inaccuracies of style which we shall not attempt to defend. What these are will be understood by referring to the review. It is needless to specify them. They will be distinguished by not being made the subject of any remarks by us. We entirely agree with the reviewer that the usage of good writers is the only standard by which the English language is to be ascertained. But we perhaps differ from him in the manner of applying this standard. Our language is the subject of continual accretion, and from age to age (indeed from year to year) is enriched by the addition of new words and new idioms. To the authors of these we are certainly deeply indebted, and we shall continue to incur fresh debts, as often as any one shall contribute to our facilities of giving clearness, force, piquancy and grace to expression of our thoughts. But how can these valuable contributions go on, if they who offer them are considered as forfeiting, by the very act, their place among those good writers whose compositions are to be taken as standards of language? The effect of this must be to stop all farther improvement. But does the language admit of none S Say that it does not. What then ? There was a time when it did ; and the law of language was the same then as now. How happens it then that so much has been added to it, in defiance of this supposed law, and that they who have furnished the additions have been honored and rewarded ; while such as, at this day, follow their example, are to be censured? With due submission we will venture a solution of this pies tion, which will at once vindicate all contributors, past, present and future, whose suggestions of words or phrases may abide the test we shall propose. We will say then that the English language Consists actually of all the words found in our dictionaries, and in all our standard authors, and, potentially, of such other words as necessity or convenience may suggest the use of, and in the formation of which certain conditions arc observed. It might savor of pedantry to specify these ; and we are not sure that we could specify them all. But a few examples will illustrate our meaning. The adjective indicates a totality, which it predicates of the noun substantive. Now this quality has, or ought to have, a name. Sometimes that name is made the root of the adjective, and sometimes is derived from it. Now we do not scruple to say that if there be an adjective and no noun expressive of the quality which that adjective predicates of its adjunct noun, it is law- ful to make such a one. If we had no such word in any book as "badness," the use of the word would be perfectly proper. Again, it may happen, that although there is a noun expressive of the generic quality predicated by an adjective derived from it, If any modification of that quality were found unprovided with its appropriate word, it would be quite right to form one from the adjective. Thus, if we had but the word "joy" belonging to the whole family of gladness, the formation of "joy-ous" and "joyous-ness" would be as legitimate as the use of the generic word itself. In the exercise of this privilege we will suggest one rule which is sometimes overlooked, and produces results unpleasant to the • classical taste. It is this—that whether the radical which it is proposed to expand into a new word is of Saxon or of Latin ori- gin, the increment which is supplied should be chosen in confor- mity to the genius of the language from which the word is derived. If this rule be uniformly observed, the innovator may rest assured that the new word thus grafted on the old stock of the language will incorporate with it, and become a part of it. Thus, if we suppose that we had no word to express " badness" in any of its modes, we should adopt that word, and also "-wickedness," thus adding the Saxon increment "ness" to the adjec. tive. But we should not say I'malerolentness," but t' malevolence," according to the Latin formula. To come nearer to the point in controversy : We maintain that, as a general rule, it is lawful to use most nouns verbally, making little and often no change in their form. Hence, if the word "based," which is used as a participle, were not to be found in any book on earth, such use would be perfectly legiti- mate. We would say the same of the verb to "ornament." It happens that both these words, which are condemned as barbarisms by the reviewer, are found in Webster ; as well as the word "incipiency," which he also condemns. But we lay much less stress on this authority than on the principle we have stated. Why should not such words be used ? Can their meaning be mistaken ? Is not their formation in perfect harmony with the rules and genius of the language ? Have they not unequivocal marks of legitimacy, whether born yesterday or an hundred years ago ? We would beg the reviewer to task his black-letter lore, and find us in any ancient author the word "teeth" used as a verb. What authority had Shakspeare for making it a participle, in that magnificent passage with which all his readers are familiar? Shall we join with Green and his other censors in condemning him too as a licentious innovator? Use was as much the jut and norma laquendi in his day as now. But Shakspeare used a freedom as pardonable, and as much practiced now as thenHane veniam demos pelimusgue iss kn.* in these remarks it will be seen that it is hardly any part of our object to vindicate Mr. Dew. Webster has all the words excepted to but "pervasive." That word is a desideratum. It is a legitimate formation which expresses in a state of rest the quality which "pervading" exhibits in action. If it is not English, it deserves to be, and will be. The first use of it by a good writer naturalizes it de facto. We were edified and pleased with the reviewer's critique on the quotation from Virgil. His rule is true as a general rule. But he errs in denying any exceptions to his maxim, that the quotation should be used in the exact sense of the original pas- * We remember seeing the use of the word " notice" as a verb severely criticised by Gifford in the Quarterly. Yet he himself thus uses the same word in the same work. sage. This very line was applied by Doctor Johnson to his boasted work, his Dictionary. The passage is in Boewell'e life of him. But an example is at hand of a quotation used with the happiest effect in a reversed sense. It was in a speech of the late Mr. Randolph, which all who heard it felt, and which none can forget. When the confidence of the opposition was claimed for Mr. Adams, and a pledge of confidence was asked, he gave his answer in the words of Apollo to the son of Clymene—"Pignora cuts petis, do pignora cuts timendo." The fear of Apollo was for his son. That of Mr. Randolph was of Mr. Adams. Yet the effect of this quotation, so applied, was electrical, and was considered by many as one of the most felicitous examples of Mr. R.'s fine classic taste. So much for verbal criticism. Paulo mojora eanamus. Yet we cannot dismiss this philological discussion without avowing, that to us the subject is one of great interest. We would respectfully request those who preside over the language of our country and race, to consider well of the ideas we have presented. Should they be received with favor, they may have the effect of composing the strifes of verbal critics, and of blending into harmony the contributions of literature, and art, and science, to a language so happily qualified to adapt itself to all the modifications of thought which the progressive improvement of the human mind must elicit. Whenthe reviewer, turning from the work of verbal criticism, undertakes to examine and controvert the doctrines taught in Mr. Dew's address, he seems to us engaged in the unprofitable task of refuting that for which his adversary does not contend. He does, indeed, assert the importance of moral and political science; and, in doing this, displays somewhat of that zeal, which is always awakened by the sneers of others against what we approve. President Dew is aware, that in most other seminaries, and especially in some of those in Virginia, these subjects are held in little repute, and are decidedly postponed to the exact sciences. We do not understand him as doing more than to contend for their equal claim to consideration. In doing this, it was not necessary that he should recapitulate all that could be said in favor of mathematics, natural philosophy, and chemistry. This was already done by those with whom he was-contending. His part was to say as much, if as much could be said with truth, in favor of what the reviewer calls his favorite studies. They are perhaps his favorite studies; but it is not on that account that he spoke on their behalf. He advocated them because of their intrinsic importance, and he advocated them as the head of an institution where they have been always particularly cherished. He knew that this had been imputed to his college as a fault, and from this imputation he felt it his duty to defend her. If any thing was wanting to make good his defence, his reviewer has supplied it. We beg the reader's attention to the following passage : The particular evils here enumerated are,
