 the insufficiency of their acquirements, and the fearful excess of demagogues over statesmen. The general evil is expressed in the language of Chancellor Oxenstein: " Quara parve sapientia regitur mundus." These are evils. None feels them more than ourselves or President Dew ; and none can paint them more strikingly than his reviewer. What then ? Because there is an acknowledged evil, shall there be no remedy ? And if a remedy, shall it be one which we Gan, or one which we cannot administer ? Is it for mere schoolmen to correct "the morbid desire of distinction" nourished by our institutions ? The evil, such as it	inheres in the nature of the thing, with its consequent " swarms of politicians." It may be rendered harmless, but while liberty exists, it can never be destroyed. Like the name of Phidias on the shield of Minerva, envy cannot obliterate it without spoiling the whole work. But why is it an evil?: Now, for this, President Dew proposes a remedy—moral and political education. We beg the reviewer to re-examine the address with critical care, and say whether he there sees any reason to believe that the author would be content to turn out from his classes, tyros in politics, and demagogues ? Does he see any indication that such, though undesigned, would be the effect of his instructions ? Our present number contains another lecture from the same institution, and on this very subject. We request him to read that, and ask himself whether he sees there any reason to apprehend that the student will be led to think himself a statesman, as soon as he has got by rote a breviary of popular sayings. If we rightly understand (and we think we do) the plans of President Dew and his fellow laborers, it is their object, if practicable, to correct the very evils of which the reviewer speaks. No doubt frequent disappointments await them ; but until we are convinced that their means are not adapted to their ends, we shall wish to see them persevere. And we shall watch their labors with a hope rendered cheerful by past experience. However demagogues may abound among us, few of them, in proportion, have been reared at William and Mary. The course of instruction there is essentially the same pursued thirty or forty years ago ; and we live surrounded by the proofs of its excel. lence in the very point in question: We have but to step into the Court of Appeals, and we see on the bench, the President, and Judges Cabell and Brockenbrough, and at the bar, Messrs. Johnson, and Leigh, and Stanard, and Robertson. We know that they are all alumni of William and Mary, and almost all contempqraries ; the rich fruit of one abundant harvest. While we think of these men, may we not be allowed to hope that the system of education which has given them to their country, may continue to furnish others, in whose presence the ignorant pretender shall blush, and the demagogue shall stand rebuked ? In such a result no one would rejoice more than ourselves—no, not even our friend the reviewer ; and for its accomplishment, there is no man to whom we look with more confidence than President Dew. Praying God to speed him in his labors, of him and his reviewer we take a courteous farewell. To the latter we feel ourselves obliged by his neat and elegant critique, and beg him to believe, that our sense of its merit and his own, is not the leas, because we have felt it our duty to screen another friend from a censure, originating, as it seems, in misapprehension. The question of authority for the use of certain words, is one to be settled between Walker and Webster. We wish, for our parts, that all lexicographers would fight their own battiest, instead of setting honest men by the ears. If they must fight by champion, we should like to see the " battle of the books" renewed, and folio meet folio in fair field. If the strife should end in the extermination of all the dictionaries of the English tongue, we are not sure that the language would lose any thing by it. No well-read man has need of them. Tbey do but save illiterate clowns from betraying their ignorance and low breeding. And even this they do but imperfectly. By the initiated, the language learned from a dictionary will never be mistaken for that acquired in the parlor or in the halls of science. The remarks which we made, in our number for February last, upon some reflections which a writer in the Pittsburg Times, and the editor of the paper, had suffered themselves to cast upon US for ascribing the " Lines to my Wife" (published in our number for October preceding,) to Lindley Murray, have brought us several letters from different hands, which we shall lay before our readers for their amusement. It is curious, indeed, to find from /bees that we were all out—if we are even now exactly in. Thus our correspondent A. R L. surprises us with the discovery that the Lines are evidently borrowed (with few alterations) from an old Scotch song by one Lapraik ; and very interestingly identifies the original as a favorite of Burns himself. Ile agrees with us, however, that the imitation which we published was probably written by Murray, rather than by Huddesford ; and we were thanking him in our hearts for his aid on this point, when we received the letter of "Oxoniensis," who, not dreaming that the Lines were borrowed or altered from Lapraik, assigns them without hesitation to Iluddesford, and indeed seems to prove that they are his, by tracing them to the " Wiccamical Chaplet," which he certainly edited. At least, their coming out in that work would appear to establish the fact of their having been written by some Wiccarnist, and Murray, we suppose, was hardly one of that tribe. So we must now think that the Lines are most probably liuddesforcPs ; and we are glad to learn from our correspondent, that the author of them is not the "Englishman of very little celebrity" that our Pittsburg pair supposed him to be, but an eminent Oxonian, a man of learning and letters, and justly esteemed an elegant poet for his time. Indeed, these Lines, if he had writ no other, would fairly entitle him, in our opinion, to the praise of possessing no small share of poetical tenderness and taste. But our correspondent X. Y. has here furnished us with another specimen of his Muse, which raises him still higher in our favor ; as it shows that he had also no small genius, or at least talent, for the sublime. But what do we say to the fifth, or additional stanza, which our " Oxoniensis" informs us is not in the copy in the " Wiccamical Chaplet ?" Why, we think, with him, that it is manifestly unworthy saf the rest, and most probably by another hand. We cannot, indeed, altogether assent to his sharp condemnation of the figure of the Ivy, which we think justifiable upon the soundest principles of criticism—for it is sufficient, we take it, that a figure shall be, in law language, " true to a common intent," without being so to "every intent and if the Ivy, as he charges, draws its nourishmentfrom the tree to which it attaches itself, that is obviously no more than it has a right to do, as a wife may, very lawfully, claim support and subsistence from her husband, (though both, we confess, may happen to extract a little too much) and, at any rate, its secret fault does not ap pear, and ought not to be remembered, in the admirable fondness and fidelity with which it clings to the trunk which it adorns—alike through storm and sunshine—even to its death. The poets, accordingly, have done ample justice to its merit in this point of view; and the very figure is, in fact, sanctioned by the best usage, ancient and modern. We-could quote a hundred examples from the Greek, Latin, and English classics, to prove it ; but we refrain. We admit, however, that the writer, whoever he was, might perhaps have found a better plant fur his purpose. We observe, indeed, that the song of Lapraik, which he evidently had before his eyes when he wrote, has the " woodbine" instead of the " Ivy," and we feel at once that if one could fairly imagine himself to be a tree, lie might, very reasonably, choose to be clasped by that beautiful flower, rather than by any ivy in the world (unless, indeed, it were one of those sweet Ioys that happen to be growing and blooming in or near a certain borough that we know.) But we keep our readers too long from the Letters. Here they are at last. Augusta, Georgia, th .arch, Ism Sir :—From the last number of the Messenger, I learn that you have been rudely handled, by a writer in the Pittsburg Daily Times, for ascribing the ode "To My Wife,,, in the October number of your truly valuable periodical, to Lindley Murray. Surely, your mistake was quite too natural, to justify the sharp reproof of the writer in the Times. But what will he, and his indorser (the Editor of the Times) say, when they learn, that Mr. Huddesford has no more claims to the authorship of that piece, than Lindley Murray ! In point of fact, it was written by a Scotchman, of the name of John Lapraik, a contemporary and companion of Burns. It Is to be found at page sixty-seven of the first volume of the Glasgow edition of the Encyclopedia of Songs ; which was published nearly twenty years before the Western Songster. The ode appears in the Messenger a little changed, both in measure and dialect, from the original ; but not so much so, as to raise a doubt even in the mind of the writer in the Times, as to its identity with Laprailtht. Let me lay them both before the reader. In issuing the present number of the Messenger (tne first of a new volume), I deem it proper to inform my subscribers, and the public generally, that MF. POE, who has filled the editorial department for the last twelve months, with so much ability, retired from that station on the d inst.; and the entire management of the work again devolves on myself alone. Dili. P. however, will continue to furnish its columns, from time to time, with the effusions of his vigorous and popular pen,—and my old contributors, among whom am proud to number some of the best writers in our state and country, will doubtless continue to favor me with their valuable contributions. I shall hope, therefore, with some confidence, that the Messenger will not lose any portion of the interest or reputation which it has acquired, and which I shall, of course, anxiously endeavor to preserve. At any rate, I can most honestly promise my patrons, that I shall continue to use my utmost exertions to make it every way worthy of their favor and support. It is perhaps due to Mr. POE to state, that he is not responsible for any of the articles which appear in the present number, except the Reviews of Bryant's Poems, George Balcombe, Irving's Astoria, Reynolds's Address on the South Sea Expedition, Anthon's Cicero,—the first number of Arthur Gordon Pym, a sea story,—and two Poetical effusions, to which his name is prefixed. I have only to add, that in prosecuting my publication, whilst I shall hope and ask nothing for myself but the fair reward which is due, under the blessing of Divine Providence, to honest industry and good intention, shall leave my contributors and subscribers to divide among themselves the honor of making and supporting a work, which shall be worthy of them and creditable to the literary character of our common country, and more particularly of our Southern States. [We present below another article from our correspondent H. B., whose previous papers upon naval subjects, we have taken occasion to commend to the notice of our readers. We invite their special attention to the following essay. While we hope that every contribution that finds admission into the columns of the Messenger will be worthy of their regard, and each, after its manner, contribute its quota to their amusement and instruction, we deem the subject that is discussed below, as having a strong claim independent of its great literary merit—nay, as laying, by the deep considerations of patriotism and duty, a requirement upon each one to whom the interests and honor of his country are dear, to study, to reflect and to act. We would that the sword were sheathed—that the standard of battle were furled forever. But such is not the case. We are yet exposed to the perils of conflict, and that with mighty nations. Dark clouds are gathering in the horizon, that threaten every moment to burst, and to involve us in the consequences: In the event of such a crisis, can any one doubt that it is to our Navy we must look as our strongest arm of defence? that Navy that has won for us so many laurels upon Lake and Sea, and beneath whose bunting has cowered even the Red-Cross of Saint-George? But is this agent of national defence in a condition to meet such an exigency? This is an important question, and:fOr an answer let the reader look to the following and the'preceding articles from the masterly pen of our corresondent. We assure them that it is a pen fully eapableof discussing this question. believed to be wholly original. We can only say, read and act upon the important suggestions therein contained. Let it be remembered, if war should come, we must look to the merchant service, not only for men, but for officers for our Navy. And what-shall be the qualifications of these officers ! Shall they have all the advantages of a training in the school-ship, as proposed below, or shall they rush totally unprepared to the quarter-deck, and be called from the quiet routine of commercial prosperity, to "stand to their guns, and be ready?" But, the school-ship appears to he almost as important to the interests of our country in peace, as in war. Let Marine Insurance Companies attend to the valuable suggestions which they will find in this paper, relative to the increased safety in the navigation of merchant-ships, which would flow from the employment of commanders well educated in the naval school-ship. But we will not detain the reader. Once more we respectfully yet earnestly request all to study this paper. Would that it could be spread before the eyes of the whole country ! The pen that has performed this labor, is wielded by one deeply informed as to the subjects upon which he writes—by one interested, as every true sailor must be, in aught that concerns the firesides of mothers and sisters, the proud flag that floats over him, and " the wooden walls" of his countryl—Ed. Mess. We hardly need invite the attention of our readers to the "Notes and Anecdotes, Political and Miscellaneous," which we begin to publish in this number, and which we shall continue in our next They have been translated for our pages from a lively and agreeable French work, which has lately appeared in Paris, entitled "Souvenirs Anecdotiques at Politiques, tires du portfeuille &nit Fonctionnaire de L'Empire. Mie en ordre par Musnier Descloseaux ;" and which we learn has excited some notice in that city. The Author in his " Introduction" says : "I have long reflected what title I should give this book. It is, to speak correctly, a Collection of Anecdotes. But the title, Collection of Anecdotes, does not seem to use to convey the idea of a collection of historical facts, for the most part grave ; all of them connected with men and things of serious importance. "On the other hand, I do not pretend to write history, though the most perfect history, when separated from its philosophical accompaniment, is in reality but a sequence of anecdotes, more or less developed and arranged in a methodical and chronological order. "I have then made a Collection of Anecdotes, and if I have assumed a title somewhat more ambitious, it is not with the intention of deceiving any one; but there are anecdotes upon anecdotes; the almanacs from that of Liege to that of France, multiplied to a hundred thousand copies, are also collections of anecdotes ; and my work seems to me to be of a higher class. " HI have added to my title these words, drawn from the Portfolio of en Officer of the Empire, it is not a falsehood. I might without deviating from truth, have said, drawn from the Port. folios of several tyficers of the Empire, and of the Restoration. For, VI am indebted for the knowledge of the greater number of facts that I have reported, to one individual, who has long been in a situation to see and understand many important affairs, I have also obtained a large number of valuable documents from sources not less elevated, nor less to be relied on." Our translator, who resides in Paris, briefly adds : " The stories are some of them amusing, and others interesting from their curious historical disclosures ; besides, they have the merit of being free." As such, we shall serve them out to our readers, from time to time, as articles which we think they cannot fail to relish and enjoy. We perceive that a writer in the Pittsburg Daily Times, (a new paper lately established in that city, which has been obligingly sent to us,) very gravely charges that the Lines which we published in our number for October last, as from the pen of Lindley Murray, were not in fact written by him, but by one "Huddesford, an Englishman of very little celebrity, and can be found," be says, "in Grigg's Philadelphia edition of The Western Songster,' published in ." Then after some twaddle sufficiently impertinent, he proceeds to say : "As a matter of common justice, it is to be hoped that the enlightened editor of the Messenger will apologize to his readers for the manner in which he has imposed upon them, in serving up literary dishes from the Western Songster for their amusement." The editor of the paper, too, seems inclined to back his man, and says : "Though our correspondent is somewhat sharp, the Editor of the Messenger will doubtless take his advice in good part ;" and sagely adds-.-" We hope the paltry pilferer, who imposed on the Messenger, may be detected, and receive the castigation he so well merits." Thus, we see, they both concur in taking it for granted that the Lines are certainly Huddesford's, and that they were certainly copied from the Western Songster ; and only differ on the small point whether we, or some correspondent of ours, purloined them from that little work. Now, is it not strange that it never once occurred to either of this sapient pair, that even allowing that the Lines were certainly Huddesfords, yet that we, or our correspondent, might have been very innocently mistaken in ascribing them to Murray, and that we might accordingly bave done so, without designing to " impose" upon any one in the case ? And would it, in fact, have been any thing more than simply fair and decent in them to have supposed that we were so, when it must have been obvious upon a moment's reflection, that we could neither of us gain any thing by the erroneous ascription, since we did not, most certainly, pretend to pass the Lines off for our own ? And if the writer happened to find them printed in the Western .Songster, did it necessarily follow that we could have copied them only from that collection, which must itself have been copied, of course, from many other sources ? And do not our writer and editor both now perceive that they have done us and our correspondent gross injustice by their paltry charge ? If they do not, it can only be because (what we are still most unwilling to believe) they have really not a single grain of sense between them. At any rate, we are quite sure that all candid persons will readily excuse us from answering the remarks of such scribblers any further; and we feel indeed that we have done them too much honor already by noticing them at all. We owe it, however, to our readers, to state very briefly the evidence on which (knowing nothing of Huddesford, who, it seems, is " a poet of small celebrity,") we ascribed the Lines to Murray. We shall only say, then, that a gentleman of worth and talent, to whom we are indebted for other favors, sent them to us as a literary curiosity, proceeding, as he believed, from the pen of the grammarian ; and we published them accordingly as such, without dreaming, of course, that they would or could be claimed for any other author. But how did our correspondent fall into the mistake (if it is one) of thinking that they were Murray's ? Why, he found them, as he informs us, written in a paper which had been put away by his mother, a venerable lady who was distinguished for her literary taste, and who had been in her early youth the schoolmate and constant companion and bosom friend of the sisters of Murray, in New York, among a parcel of letters, notes, and other communications from them to her : the paper was endorsed " Lindley Murray to his Wife;" it bears every mark of age, and must have been written, as he thinks, at least as far back as the year . Now, it is easy to see that this evidence was quite sufficient to justify our friend in concluding, as he did, that the Lines were really Murray's; and it is certainly not yet proved that they are not. They are found, indeed, it seems, in the Western Songster, ascribed to Huddesford. But it does not yet appear that Huddesford ever published them himself with his name ; for it will hardly be contended, we presume, that he communicated them to the compiler of the Western Songster, published in , when it has been shown that they must have been written at least as early as , and Haddesforcl, whoever be was, most probably died many years ago ; and if they were published by any other person, it is easy to see that tb et person may have erred in ascribing them to Huddeaford, as well as our correspondent in ascribing them to Murray. We sere the evidence on which the one, but do not, and cannot., see. that on which the other may have proceeded in	how, then, can we decide which is the strongest ?	therefore, while we candidly confess that we are by no means free from doubt, we still think it but "common justice" to continue, with our correspondent, to ascribe the Lines to Murray, rather than to transfer them, with our Pittsburg pair, to Huddesford, upon the slight and insufficient proof before us. TO CORRESPONDENTS. The valuable communication of Professor Lieber has come to hand, but too late for our present number. It shall appear in our next. The piece, " To the Passing Year," is a little too late for the subject, and for our columns too ; but may find a place in them hereafter. The " Sonnet to Spring" can wait, of course, till next month, when it will be more in season. We have received several poetical effusions, apparently from very young bards, which, with all our tenderness for the buds of genius, we have been obliged to commit (according to the modest hints of their authors,) to the flames. Some of them, indeed, were not without points of promise; but these were not sufficient to save them from their fate. The writers, however, must not be discouraged. They may do and fare better another time. lrJ"We are requested to say, that "The Partisan Leader, and the review of that work in our last number, will be reviewed in the course of the ensuing Summer by a Virginian, and one of the present republican party of the State." upon the faith of this list, and on the promise of these subscribers that many of our engagements were made—they are pressing upon us—this is the time for us to meet them—and these arrearages are our main reliance. They are divided among many hundreds of subscribers, and the sum owed by each is trifling in itself to him, but, in the aggregate, the amount is large, and by us is greatly needed. It is our sole reliance—a mere pittance to the subscriber, but a fortune to the publisher. Many, we know have withheld their fees, on account of the deranged state of the currency. Their motives were good, and are highly appreciated. But we can better lose a part now than we can afford to wait longer. Our distant subscribers who have been thus actuated, are respectfully informed that the currant bank notes of every State, are now received by us at their par value. Any one, may forward his subscription fee, free of postage, through the post-master, who is empowered to frank all such communications. We cannot close this appeal, without returning our thanks to our numerous contributors for their many favors. Notwithstanding the tightness of the times, there is a noble band of those who have stood by us manfully, and have proudly borne us along the walks of literature. The ending of the old and the beginning of the new-year, are land-marks in the ways of business ;— the former is the time for casting back and settling up old scores—the latter, for looking blithely ahead, and forming new plans. We have taken a view each .way, and are reminded, that, to day, we turn over a new leaf in a new volume of the Messenger. While we are doing this, we beg the attention of our friends and subscribers for a few moments. Times are hard—our engagements are pressing ; we have wrought the year through, and furnished our subscribers with every jot and tittle of what we promised to give them. Have they done the same by us l Many, we are happy to say, have—and many, the state of our finances reminds us, have not. To the first, we return many and hearty thanks—to the last, we appeal for justice. Our subscription list is a large one ; had we half of what is due by it, we should be satisfied for years to come. A few names on this list are marked paid for , some for , but the rest are in arrears, some for one year, some for two years, some for three and some ever since the Messenger began. If one moiety of these arrearages were paid up, we should ask no favors and give no duns. It was THE NAVY AND THE WEST. 'We respectfully and earnestly invite the attention of Western members of Congress--of the Western press, and of the Western people to the subject treated of below. Ed. Sou. Lit. Messenger. This` is a neatly printed pamphlet of twenty odd pages, the object of which is fully set forth in the title page. Our readers, doubtlessly, will recollect the letters of Harry Bluff; which, under the alias of "Union Jack," were addressed in the Messenger, to Mr. Clay, about eighteen months ago, setting forth the claims of the South and West upon the Navy. These letters were nobly responded to by the press in those regions. In answer to Harry Bluff's appeal to Western patriotism, Tennessee has manfully stepped forth, and bravely responded. Memphis in particular, has asserted her elairn. preferred them with such force of reason and argument that has fairly brought them to the favorable notice of Congress. Though the shores of the West, be not washed by the tides of the Ocean, they are by noble streams that load the Ocean with commerce; and anything that is "tarry and briny" closely concerns many of their best interests. Let us see therefore, what. connexion the South and West have, or oilet to have, with the Navy : There is a steam man-of-war ; let's look at her, and examine whence came the materials of that smoky leviathan. Her bulwarks, her sides, her timbers and her ribs, are of oak and pine. Where did they grow, and whence were they taken They grew in the South and West, and were taken to the East, to be moulded into shape. Her machinery is made from Western iron, by Eastern mechanics. Her cordage and her canvass were produced in the West ; but the profits of their manufacture filled Eastern pockets. The copper and the lead used in her construction, though smelted on the waters of the Upper Mississippi, were carried away in Eastern ships, bought by the government of Eastern merchants, manufactured in Eastern workshops;—and for why that Eastern states mightmonopolize Navy disbursements. And though she be intended for the Gulf of Mexico, and therefore, more immediately for the protection of Southern and Western interest, her crew are Eastern men, shipped and paid off in Eastern ports, and fed on Western pork and beef, taxed with Eastern profits the very fuel that gives her power, though it may be had on the banks of the Western rivers for five cents the bushel, is bought in Eastern towns of Eastern men, at a good round Eastern price, and then transported in Eastern ships, by Eastern crews, and Eastern masters, for Eastern owners, and deposited at the door-way of the West, at more than double cost. The coal, that is supplied to our steamers at Pensacola is supplied from Boston—which is supplied from an English province, and costs the government, we are informed, by the time it is landed at Pensacola, from $ to $, per ton—whereas better coal—coal that burns freely—that will neither " clink" nor "choke," may be furnished from our Western river banks, and landed at Pensacola, or any where in the Gulf, at less than half that price. Verily, Southern and Western legislators are strangely blinded to their interests in relation to the Navy. Why should not all this timber, and all this iron, and all this hemp, and all this copper, this lead, this coal, this beef and this pork ; aye, and this crew, be supplied directly from the West? With the Memphis Aldermen, we think they should, and we hope to see the attention of Western members in Congress, turned, in good earnest, to this subject, for the general, not less than the sectional interests, require that the links in the chain which binds the West to the Navy, should be made bright. The mouth of the Mississippi is not at the Ba lise—the Gulf of Florida is the outlet for W estern commerce—therefore the defences of the Gulf of Mexico, are only those of the Mississippi, extended. These defences operating more immediately for the protection of the South and West, in whose hands should they be placed, but in those of Southern and Western yeomen Is the West willing, in case of war, to entrust the defences of the Gulf to Eastern sailors? the Western boys are its natural defenders. Those defences must consist of steamers—the West is the land of steamboats, and Western river boatmen would furnish our man-of-war steamers with the best crews in the world. The steamers intended for the gulf should be built in the West—equipped in the West, and manned in the West. There their crews should be shipped, and there they should be paid off and discharged. The boilers and engines, instead of being made on the banks of the Hudson, should be manufactured on the banks of the Mississippi—and the hemp too of Kentucky, instead of being sent round to the rope yard at Boston to be spun into cordage, should be stopped at the Memphis boat-yard, and be manufactured there—so too with chain cables—and so too with the cannon for these boats. Are gentlemen aware, that the best and cheapest guns, that have been procured for the Navy, are cast on the Western waters from Western iron ? These cannon have been delivered at ninety odd dollars, whereas Eastern founders received under former contracts—from $ to $, for like pieces. When a vessel is crippled in the gulf, it certainly would be nearer, and safer, and cheaper, to send her to the Boat-yard at Memphis for repairs, than it would be to send her to New-York or Boston. View this subject as we may, reason, justice, and public weal, all point to the banks of the Mississippi, as the proper site for the National Boat-yard, and to the 'Western rivers as the best nursery for armed boatmen. We should be much pleased to hear that Lieut. Hunter, in his newly constructed steamer, the Union, had been sent by the Department up the Mississippi, that the Western people may see a steam vessel-of-war, and be reminded of the interests they have at stake in this matter ; they would recognize in her, the produce of their hills and their valleys, which had been carried away in the rough, wrought up into shape, and sent back again to their doors ;—then, perhaps, their eyes would be fully opened to our course of reasoning. There is another subject too, besides the establishment of a National Boat-Yard on the Missis- sippi, which would redound greatly to the advan- tage of the 'West—and which we have time now only to glance at. We allude to a survey, or rather an "index" of the Western rivers, by which their navigation may be improved, and rendered more certain, as well as more safe. The public coffers have been, for years, opened with a liberal hand for what
